Title: Nineteenth Day - Hanging out in Hanoi 11/20/10
Date: 2010-11-20 08:22
Author: sumner
Category: Trip to Vietnam
Slug: hanging-out-in-hanoi
Status: published

Hannah:  
Today we did a cooking class. It was fun, but I only had fun for a
little bit. Why? Because We were making yummy fried spring rolls, when
our cooking extraordinaire was trying to flip the spring rolls, she
accidentally dropped them in the very hot (to me) cooking oil. It 
splattered on my hand. It was not a very bad burn, but it still hurt
very much. But I also learned how to treat a burn, with out ice, and the
pain goes away pretty quickly. You need half of a lime or lemon. Then
you simply squirt the lime juice on the places where you got burned and
you are good. Also you can use some white light vinegar. After a while
the pain will go way and you just have to be careful about where you put
your hand.  
        After the crisis, we made some yummy snake head fish fresh
spring rolls. They were very good. Then we made some easy fried rice.
And then for dessert we had some taro and sweet potato with ginger soup.
It was O.K. but since I have been in Vietnam, I have not really liked
these Vietnamese desert dishes. After the cooking I played the piano for
our teacher. Then we headed back to our hotel. Now we are just simply
hanging out in Hanoi. See Ya!

Sumner:  
Today after breakfast we had to decide what to do for the day.  We had a
couple of options, one to go to a primate research center and walk in a
national park. Another was to do another cooking class at Old Hanoi. And
the last was going to a river that was supposed to be like Hallong Bay
(that's a really pretty bay with lots of pretty little islands). We
decided that we didn't want to go to the primate research center because
there was a four hour drive to get to the national park. And we voted
out the river because we are going to Hallong once dad came. So, by
default, we did the cooking class.  
When we go to the cooking class we were told to sit down and wait for
the teacher. When she arrived she didn't look ready for a cooking class.
She looked like she was a flight attendant on an airplane! Before we
started cooking we went to the market. It was originally an outside
market but the government made a building so that it became and inside
market. We went inside and walked to all the stalls while she pointed
out the ingredients for the food. We didn't buy anything because it was
cheaper for the restaurant to buy it in bulk. We saw some interesting
things in the market but probably the most interesting one was all the
roots that looked like garlic one was called traumatic and was yellow in
color. She picked some off the root and gave it to mom who played with
it in her hand, a decision she later regretted because her hands turned
yellow! She had yellow hands for the next few days. After the market we
went back to the restaurant and started cooking. The first thing that we
did was made some fish sauce and then went on to making fried spring
rolls. First we mixed the ingredients for the spring rolls. We mixed
some pork, some carrots and all sorts of other things on a plate. Most
of it was already chopped up but some of it we had to Julian. After that
we split the ingredients into three piles and put them into the rice
paper. Then we got pans and little cook stoves to fry the rolls. Our
cook stove ran out of fuel while we were cooking, so the spring rolls
didn't cook very fast. Mom and I were on one side of the table and
Hannah and the chef were on the other side. We weren't doing to well
because when we were making the ingredients for the spring rolls and
needed egg yolk I accidentally spilled the entire egg on the floor
(that's why I am not a chef). Any way as soon as I said that Hannah a
the teacher were doing everything well the teacher tried to get a spring
roll out of their pot with her chopsticks. The spring roll accidentally
slipped from her grasp and fell back into the oil resulting in a splash
of hot oil in the direction of Hannah. When Hannah saw the hot oil fling
at her arm she removed her arm from the path of hot liquids.
unfortunately she didn't move it enough so she got a couple of splatters
on her hand. The chef immediately got lime to remedy the situation and
squirted it on Hannah's hand. Anyway once we finished cooking our spring
rolls we ate them with the fish sauce that we made previously made. It
was absolutely delicious! (Can you tell I like food?) OK, we finished
our spring rolls and then went on to making some grilled fish. We put
some greens and some different seasonings in a pan with the fish. Then
we grilled it to perfection.Then we used rice paper, put some stuff in
it, and then added some of the greens and fish to the spring rolls. Then
we rolled it up and ate it with the fish sauce. After we ate the spring
rolls we made some fried rice. We put some rice and other ingredients
into a pan and then fried it. I was the first one to try to fry the rice
but because it was a rather small pan and allot of rice it was kinda
hard to stir. Well some of the rice ended up on the table so I asked mom
to do it. She wasn't much better that I was though so more rice was
spilled. Obviously mom and I were having bad days for cooking! We ate
the rice and then went on to making a desert. It was taro, sweet potato,
and ginger soup. It was basically the same as the desert at the cooking
class in Sapa. It was kinda funny but the hostess had dipped the spoon
into the soup and sampled it. Then, in Hannah's words, she "Shoved the
spoon into my mouth so I had no choice on whether or not to eat it off
the spoon that she ate off or not!!!" Well after that bit of excitement
we were served some. We didn't like it very much and so we made the
excuse that "we were full already." Then we payed for the cooking class
and Hannah played some piano for the teacher. Then we started walking
back to the hotel when we realized that we had forgotten to get the
recipes from her. We got back to the hotel and rested for a while and
then went out and walked around. Then we had dinner and went to bed.
