Title: Hue and Hoi An
Date: 2010-11-30 14:50
Author: sumner
Category: Trip to Vietnam
Slug: hue-and-hoi-ps-hoi-will-not-be-ti
Status: published

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

\~Hannah\~

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

Hi, I seem to have miscalculated my estimations on when we have WiFi,
cause today we found out that we have free internet. So here I am
telling you about what we did in Hue. The way we got to Hue was by
plane. It was the shortest plane ride I have ever been on. It was an
hour flight,and basically we went up for about 20 minutes and then
stayed in the air for about 20 minutes and then went back down to the
ground for the rest of the hour ride. When we arrived at the airport, we
got our baggage and then went to find our driver. He saw us before we
saw him. Then we went to our hotel. It is the grandest hotel that we
will stay in while we are in Vietnam. There are about... 95 rooms in
all. But I think the way they did the grounds around the area is very 

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

beautiful. Then we had dinner. I am sorry, but I made an untruth, ( not
on purpose.) Remember when I said Sumner had hot pot at the Kangaroo
Cafe in Hanoi? Well we found out what hot pot really is. My dad got it
for dinner tonight but, sadly he found it rather difficult to eat it.
First you have to get a sheet of Rice Paper. The you get the vegetables,
meat or seafood,sauces if you want them, and then roll all of the things
in on big, or small roll. Then of course the fun part begins, you eat
the yummy, but hot roll, and then make as many as there are provided.
Mom and I had fresh juices. I had pineapple, and mom had Watermelon.They
were good.

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

                                           
\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.\*.

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

Today we went  to a pagoder, ( as our language teacher said.) but we had
to go on a boat ride to get to the pagoda. Then we went to the palace
were the emperors stayed. The place was ginormous! First since the
emperors were clever men, they built a moat. Then there were 9 "sacred"
canon. They are "sacred"because supposedly 9 is the lucky number. Then
there was the place where the emperor had his speeches.  We all got  to
stand right where the emperor would have sat should I say. Then I was
tempted to ring the gong and ring the bell, but they were off limits. I
think the emperor really cared for his mom, or he would not have built a
humongous palace for the king's mother. She basically had her own
private palace. And I thought this was very clever. They built a privacy
wall right where the gate was so that no one could see through the gate
and see what the mother was doing in her living room. Did you know that
the last emperor that was on the throne had his coronation  at what
seemed like the age 6 or 7? But our guide said he was more like a puppet
when he was young, because his mom and his mandarins( basically
government officials) "help" supervise the new and young emperor. Too
much information? Well I will tell you that we supposedly went to a tomb
of one of the kings. Archeologists have not opened the coffin, so we do
not know for a fact that the body is really in that tomb. But they say
he constructed a massive tomb sight that he loved the sight so much that
they built a separate place where he could write poetry and just hang
out in the beautiful place. ALSO you know that usually when some one
dies, you build the tomb after he is dead, but they finished the tomb 17
years before his death. Well we got back from our touring, so Sumner,
dad and I went to the pool to swim.Then headed back to our room. Now I
am just writing about what happened during the day. One more thing
before I part with you guys. I think tonight I will wear my Ao Dai at
dinner. I am so excited 

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

                                                               
<u>***Goodnight!!! ***</u>

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

So today we arrived in Hoi An. We had a 4 hour car ride, ( not a bad
ride.) Well, when we were maybe about... and hour into our ride, we
stopped. Completely stopped. We did not move anywhere for I think, half
an hour. Well our tour guide finally found out that there were men
working on the rode, so the men's logic was to let on side go for half
an hour, then let the other side go for an hour. So while we were
waiting, we had bathroom brakes in the bushes. ( In America we probably
would not do that UNLESS we were in the wilderness,AND had to go to the
bathroom really bad.)Well after our half an hour we headed back on the
rode. Mom and dad got the chose if we wanted to go over the pass,( which
is over the mountains,) or through the tunnel. Mom chose the tunnel
because the pass would take about 45 minutes, while the tunnel would
take about 15-20 minutes. The tunnel was  WAY longer than the Eisenhower
Tunnel in Colorado. It was about 6 Kilometers. (maybe a little more than
3 miles.) I twas kind of fun going through the VERY long tunnel. A
little while after we went through the tunnel, we came to a museum,
where a lot of statues from the 15 hundreds or before. Now those are
some really old statues. When we finished the museum, we headed back on
the road, just to stop again to take some photos at the beach. ( The
beach is really special, because that was maybe the 4 time Sumner and I
have ever seen the beach.) Now the museum was not in Hoi An, but was in
a city called Da Nang that is very close to Hoi An. We entered Hoi An
City which is the 4 largest city in Vietnam. The largest in Vietnam is
Saigon, Or Ho Chi Minh city. The second is Hanoi, the third is a city I
do not know, and the fourth is well Hoi An.T.B.C.

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

Sorry for the delay, but we had to do something important.Well as I was
saying,when we got to Hoi An, we headed to a market. A really big
market, that sold every thing you could wish for. There was a section
that had fresh fish. And they even had a pretty big
sting ray.  personally, the fish department smelled absolutely awful.
Then we went to a fish on place that sold lunch. I had some thing
different from things you would usually have. I had

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

Fish on Banana Leaf. I thought is was VERY good. Then we took a 10
minute ride to the hotel area. They say that it is not a very luxurious
place, but personally, I think that is was a wonderfully grand place.

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

                                              
\*---------------------------------\*

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

O.K. So today was a very tiring day. Why because we went bike riding for
about...4 hours? I do not know for sure, but  we rode for basically for
the entire day. Luckily Sumner and I got smaller bikes to ride on.
Though the only problem was that we all had mountain bikes.( not
including the guide.) It was really funny because We almost got run
over! Yes I know, you think maybe by a car or a bus or a motor bike, but
here is the funny part of the story, we almost got run over by cows! By
these insane cows who, I guess like to run right in front of your bike!
Also I think this is really cool, we got to go to a ship/boat yard,
where they repair and make new boats. They either make them out of wood,
or Bamboo. We also went on an hour tour on the river.

</div>

<div style="font-family: Georgia, &quot;Times New Roman&quot;, serif;">

Dad had gotten a new custom made suite, so when we docked, we went to
the store that the suite was made at. For lunch we went to a restaurant,
that had street food samples.( with a little western twist to it.) AND
she ran or runs the restaurant we went to yesterday.  T.B.C.

</div>

and the restaurant we went to today. Well after we stopped for dad's
suite, we walked backed to the hotel, in stead of riding the bicycles.
We did make to the hotel safely ( in stead of getting run over by the
crazy motor bike drivers.) Well we just finished all of our showers, and
will soon go to dinner. But to night is a very special dinner. Because
the people who are staying either 3 or more nights got invited this
morning at breakfast to have dinner with the family tonight so I am
excited. Well I do not think there is any thing else to tell you guys
about until after dinner, so I will see you then!!!  
 o.K. I think that dinner was absolutly awesome. WE started with the
best fried springrolls EVER!!! They had pork and shrimp and all of the
normal stuff. And we had Banana Flower Salad. Sumner, mom and I k ow how
to make that yummy salad. When we finished that , we had the main dish
of stir fried noodles with pork and shrimp. I thought it was REALLY,
REALLY, REALLY good. When we all thought that dinner was over, we had
our desert. You probably did not know that the Vietnamese do like to eat
sweet deserts for well desert, instead they like to have fresh fruit.
They like to have there sweets for a snack in the rice fields.Well we
had nice seasonal fresh fruit. After dinner, we went to bed, I was very
tired.

                                   
..............................................................................................

Hello.Today, we went on a rather short bike ride around the
neighborhood. I went with Sumner and mom. Dad did not come because his
knee hurt, so he got to read. When we returned we had a very good
breakfast.( All though I had the same thing as I usually have.)   
Now we are just waiting till 11:00 for our ride to the air port in Da
Nang. 

                                                                See you
then!!!
