Title: Soc Tran Trip
Date: 2010-12-03 23:40
Author: sumner
Category: Trip to Vietnam
Slug: soc-tran-trip
Status: published

\~Hannah\~  
Hello, today was a very special and memorable day. Today we started at
in a city called Can Tho. Can Tho is also a very special day, because
when Mom, dad and Sumner came to get me in Soc Tran, they stayed in a
hotel very close to the one we stayed in this trip.  
This morning we went to a floating market. It was very cool, because the
floating market is like an open super market. BUT  the hard part is that
you instead of just getting two or three carrots, for example, you have
to buy at least 1 Kilo. (about 2 pounds.) it's like going to costco! But
the coolest thing at the floating market was that we got to try some
fresh Pineapple. There is a legend about the pineapple, but of course I
will not tell you about it because it is a very long story, so if you
WANT to know the story, please ask me when I get back to the states. Any
way After the floating market, we went to go buy some food for the kids
in the orphanage. we got a whole lot of stuff, because we THOUGHT that
there would maybe...100-200 kids in the orphanage. (That is how many
kids were in my orphanage. About.) We bought plenty of rice and a lot of
toys for the children. Then we headed to Soc Tran. We arrived at the
orphanage at around 1:00 so we had lunch and then headed back on the
road. When we got there. We asked for a lady that was at the orphanage
when I was 1. Mrs. Van, (the vice president  
that is now at the orphanage.) she  is and was a doctor, so she only
took care of the sick and unhealthy babies. She did not reconage me, but
said she thought she worked with me. She claimed to say I was very thin
before my adoption. After talking with her for a while when she found
some records of me on a piece of paper that had the records of the
adoption date. That was kind of hard, because she could not find my
name, Ngyuen Ngoc Thuy. That means Jade Water. When we FINALLY  got out
of the hot and stuffy room, we went to the rooms, where the kids lived.
To our suprise, they only had 29 orphans. Mainly disabled kids, who
would probably never get adopeted. Also there was some babies. There was
one babie who was 4 months, and mom just got atached to her, or should I
say he, the babie got atached to mom. Sumner and I along with our guide
Anh, handed out cany and cookies. The kids really appriciated the food.
I found a friend who was 10, but she was very small because she did not
get the nutrisions. Sumner found a friend and played the feather kicky
thingy with him. He was  
very  good at the game. We went by my room I staye in which is now a
place for very sick adults. We kept on walking until we got to another
room with kids. Though they mainly had disabled kids. I feel bad for a
few boys who did not get any candy, or actually could not have they
seemed a little upset. Sumner had found a very good friend who played
building blocks with him. There was a very poor babie, who was I think 1
month old and was drinking form a bottle. With no one holding up the
bottle. It was propped up on the blanket  which gave the poor babie a
little covering. After haveing some time playing with the children, we
had to "sighn" our goodbyes. We said a hard good bye to Sumner and My
friend Tam, and went to our hotel. We changed our clothes and went to
the HUMUNGUS swimming pool. They had built 2 huge swimming pools. one
for little kids, and one for people who like to do laps and just hang
out in nice deep water. We got back to the hotel. And had dinner. Dinner
ws kind of frightful, because it was a deserted place with no one but us
eating at the restaurant. We ate a scary dinner, so we were glad to
finish up. We then had a crisis with the toilet. Whe you are at a nice 3
star hotel, they do not fix any toilet poblems, we had a hard time
talking to the guy at the front desk. He said that mom talked like a
rabbit, so at one point he turned to me and blabbered some thing in
Vietnamese to me. mom said I did not know Vietnamese, so we just had to
act/write out what we wanted to say. It was finny because he said he  
would sent up an elctrician man. Sumner said he would call a plummer not
an electrision. Now It is time to go to bed, So...

<div style="text-align: center;">

GOODNIGHT!!!!!!!!!!!!

</div>
