Title: Thirty-second Day - Soc Tran 12/03/10
Date: 2010-12-03 18:53
Author: sumner
Category: Trip to Vietnam
Slug: thirty-second-day-soc-tran-120310
Status: published

Sumner:  
So toady we woke up and got ready to go to Soc Tran. Soc Tran
(pronounced: shoc tran) is where Hannah was born and where her orphanage
is. We got up and walked to the dock to go to a floating market. On the
way we found the hotel that we stayed at the last night that we were a
three person family. The next day we had Hannah. Then we got onto the
boat. We went up the river a little way and then turned on a canal where
the floating market was. On the way we saw an on the water gas station.
It was like any other Vietnamese gas station with gas pumps and all.
When we arived at the gas station we went slowly up one side of the
market. There are many boats with fruits and vegitables. We saw many
bamboo poles with some of the different fruits and vegitables hanging on
them. We asked our guide what they were for and he said that those
things are the things that they are selling on that particular boat.
This market was wholesale so you had to buy in mass. We saw some women
in little canoos up beside the bigger boats and buying produce. We saw
some other women in canoos selling phu and noodles and other food. Our
guide called one of these weomen and asked her to make us some fried
noodles. She had a little styrofoam box with the top and one side cut
out of it with a little one burner cookstove. She had one pan add mixed
the noodles and fried all the stuff. Then she gave us the food. It was
moving fast food! Once we got to the end of the market we furned around
and went down the other side. On the way back we stoped at a place that
sold pineapples we baught one and the man on the boat sliced it for us.
We ate the pineapple on the way back down the other side of the market.
Then we went back to the big river and to the dock. After that we went
to buy some things for the kids in the orphanage at another market. This
time it wasn't outside on the water it was inside on land. We baught all
sorts of stuff, candy, washing machine soap, soy sause, rice (five
kilo's of it), toys and all sorts of other things that would help them.
Then we loaded all of it in the car and drove to Soc Tran. It was maybe
a four hour trip to get there. When we went to go get Hannah it took
allot longer because you had to take two ferrys. They just compleated
the bridge six months ago so if we had gone seven months earlier we
would have had to go on the ferry. When we got there we went directly to
the orphanage. First we went into the office of the orphanage and met a
woman named Mrs. Van. She was the doctor for the orphanage at the time
Hannah was there. She didn't remember Hannah because she didn't ever
have any realy serious sickness. In that room they had a chart of how
many kids were there. We were supprised to see that they only had
twenty-nine kids. Then Mrs. Van took us to one of the rooms, the main
one for orphans. We saw babies and little kids and older kids. There
were some older kids in there that we gave those fethered things to.
Many of the kids there had disabilitys. I was so glad that I have
someone to love me and take care of me instead of being in an orphanage.
It is probably one of the hardest lives to live. After giving some toys
and candy and cookies to the kids Hannah played with one of the girls
there. While she was doing that I played for a while with an older kid
in the orphanage. His name was Tam and he is fifteen. We played with the
fethered thing. We learned that the Vietnamese call it a fethered cock.
I don't know why, but that is what they call it. After that we went to
another building where elderly people live. That room used to have with
Hannah's crib. After that we went to another building, the one that we
went to to sign the papers that offically made Hannah ours. Then we went
back and had a conversation with Mrs. Van through Anh because her
English is very limmited. She thanked us for taking care of her for the
last years and we thanked her for taking care of Hannah for the first
years of her life. The conversation was more than that but that was the
path the conversation took. After that we got back in the car and drove
to a pagoda. It was basicly like any pagoda exept that in the trees
surrounding the ppagoda were many bats. The locals even called it "bat
temple." After that we went back to the car in a thing sorta like a
sicilo. It was the oposite though because a person on a motorcycle
attached at the back to a small carage (not like the ones that the pony
express went on just a seat and a little area to sit on the front.) Once
at the car we went to the hotel and got settled in. It was a big hotel
and looked very nice from the outside. Once we got inside it was still
nice but it wasn't as nice as it seemed from the outside. Our room was
clean and it would be only one night so it was fine. They even had a
swimming pool so we decided to go check it out. It was a little
questionable about how clean the water was but it looked clean enough so
Hannah and I swam for a little while and then we got out and went back
to the room. By that tome it was about time for dinner and we went to
the restraunt in the resort. It was a little scary because we were the
only ones there, besides two emploiees. The meal was OK though and we
went went back to the room to get readdy for bed. Done with today,
BEDTIME!
