Title: Twenty-fourth Day - Hallong Bay and Trip Back to Hanoi
Date: 2010-11-25 14:39
Author: sumner
Category: Trip to Vietnam
Slug: twenty-fourth-day-hallong-bay-and-trip
Status: published

Today is our last day in Hallong Bay. We woke up a little later that
yesterday so we definitely didn't see the sunrise. Breakfast was about
the same as yesterday but that's OK. After breakfast we packed up our
things and then went to see the cooking demonstration. Today they showed
us how to make fresh spring rolls. You basically had to put the
ingredients on evenly and then roll it up. No need to pinch it in. Then
we went to Te Top Island, the island that we dropped off the two day
people yesterday. We hiked up to the top of the island and had a
wonderful view of Hallong Bay. Then after staying for a few minutes we
hiked back down and go onto the boat. We packed up as we sailed through
Hallong Bay and then went up to the sun deck to see our last views of
Hallong Bay It was so beautiful, islands with very steep bare sides and
then lush, greenery on the top. There were, it seamed, thousands of
islands. Then we arrived at port. We were all sad to leave such a pretty
bay but we have more great adventures to come! We got our luggage and
then got into the car to take us back to the Elegance for one more
night. On the way back we stopped at a place "conveniently at the half
way point" It was a place that sold all sorts of arts and crafts and a
restaurant. We ate some food and then got back in the car. When we
arrived at the Elegance we were welcomed warmly as always. We got some
pictures with the manager and the staff because the manager won't be
here tomorrow. ~~Then we walked around Hanoi for a wile and had
dinner.~~ (Look near the bottom for what I meant to say.) I think that
it would be proper to decide the Elegance in more detail than I have
because it was such a memorable hotel. It had glass doors in the front
and to the right of the doors were a sofa and a coffee table. it you
walked in a little way to your right would be a travel desk where you
could organize a tour. Opposite of the travel desk was reception. If you
went to the right of reception were some chairs and a news paper stand.
Opposite of the chairs was an elevator and if you stood in the middle
and walked towards the back of the hotel you would be in the breakfast
room. Behind the tables on the back wall is a mural/painting that showed
a scene in Hanoi. The only thing missing was the multitudes of
motorcycles. To your right is the cooking area which has a stove and a
refrigerator and some counter space. It was extremely small only about
five, maybe six, square yards in total area. It must have been extremely
hard to cook because the squashed three sometimes four people in the
space! OK now if you walk back so that you are in the lobby facing the
travel desk you will see the bottom of the stairs. On the second floor
if you turned right you would be facing two rooms and if you tuned the
other direction on you left would be the elevator and if you walked just
a little further to you right would be a bathroom that guests waiting
for a room or those who have already checked out. In front of you is a
lobby with a TV and a few chairs and a sofa. It also has two computer
for guests to use. On the furthest side away from you is a little
overhang where you can see the first floor. If you kept on going up the
stairs you would be on the third floor which on you right would be tow
rooms and down the hall one more room. On of the ones that we stayed in.
The rest of the eight floors are basically the same so I will not bore
you any more with my explanations and move on to...Oops I made a
mistake. Right before the tour of the Elegance I said "Then we walked
around for a while and had dinner." But really this is what happened.  
We had been wanting to do a cicilo ride but we hadn't been able to. Did
I tell you what a cicilo is? If I did you get another explanation. A
cicilo is a cross between a stroller and a bicycle. The back wheel of
the bike and the seat are at the back and the stroller type thing is
front with a little bar at the back that the driver uses to pedal. The
stroller is just a metal thing that is sorta like a sofa just really
short. It also has a foot rest and two wheels on either side. We asked
the receptionist to call one so that we could tour the old quarter. They
came and we got in. Hannah and mom got into one and dad and me in
another. Then we toured around. I felt bad for our guy because he had
such a heavy load. We had asked for an hour tour but we only got a forty
minute tour. Oh well it was very net to do because we could really enjoy
the sights without having to dodge things on the sidewalk and cross
streets. When we got back we payed them and went back to the hotel. Then
we went out to dinner and went to bed.
