Title: Thirty-sixth Day - Phu Quoc 12/7/10
Date: 2010-12-06 22:13
Author: sumner
Category: Trip to Vietnam
Slug: twenty-fith-day-phu-quoc-12610
Status: published

Sumner:  
Today we went on a tour of the sothern part of Phu Quoc. We started out
and waited for them at the front gate. While we were waiting the owner
of Cassia Cotteges came up to us and asked where we were going. We said
that we had organised a tour with John's Tours and were waiting to be
picked up. His comment about them was "Oh, go get another cofee, they're
always late." He obdviously didn't like the lateness (I don't think that
is a word is it, oh well I've made up more that a few words while
wrighting this blog) of Johns Tours. We also asked him if they spoke
good English and his comment was that "there will be somone that can
speak enough to say 'now it's time to get out to snorkel' and 'sorry the
coke isn't cold' and stuff like that." Anyway we were picked up by a
taxi and went to one of their many offices and got onto a bus. We drove
around for a while allong the beach and then stopped to "see how pearls
were formed." Of course the real reason was to let us buy stuff. We did
get to see them open a few clams to see if there were any pearls in
them. After shopping we got back into the bus and drove to a dock and
got onto a boat. We went out for a while and then stopped to do some
fishing but the seas were pretty choppy and we moved to another place.
Then we went snorkling. Hannah had some problems because her fins didn't
work and so she couldn't stay up, they were just flaping around not
doing anything. So she took off her fins and got a life jacket just in
case. We snorkeled to the reef. It wasn't much of a reef, all of the
coral was dead and it seamed like there wasn't anything alive exept
small fish. All of the fish were, well, fished! Much of the reef was
gone because of dynamite fishing. That's when they drop a stick of
dynamite into the water and then the shock kills all the fish and makes
them rise to the surface so the fisher-men just have to pick them up.
Unfourtunently it also ruins the reefs. After the first snorkeling place
we sailed to another one close by. The conditoins there were just about
the same, dead coral and not many fish. After thirty miniutes there we
moved to another one. The first time we stopped for snorkeling all ofthe
people got in. The second time about half got in. This third time it was
just us and another couple. This one was a little more interesting but
just as dead. There were some rocks that made it neat to look at. After
that we went back to the dock and went to Sao (pronounced: sow) beach. I
was the only one that got into the water. Not even Hannah mom or dad got
in. Just me. Then we went back to the resort and swam. Hannah played
with her Norwegen friend again and then we went to the room to get ready
for dinner. We saw the beautiful sunset on the beach and went down to
get pictures. We decided that it would be easiest to eat at the resort's
restaurant. The menu didn't have very many choices but we ordered and
after a while the waiter came back and told us that some of the things
that we ordered were not avalible. So we had to re-order some of our
dishes. Anyway the food came and we had a pleasant meal. The area had a
little stream and some nice trees and vegitation which mada for a
pleasant atmosphere.
