---
title: "Queen Mary 2 Crossing"
date: 2019-05-31T23:50:00-06:00
categories: [Trip to D.C. and Transatlantic Cruise]
tags: [Cruise, Queen Mary 2, WWII, Veterans]
---

.. role:: strike
    :class: strike

Instead of giving you a day-by-day on what we did on the crossing (I was told
that it is *not* a cruise because that's only lowly peasants would go on a
cruise), I'm going to just talk about some of the highlights and make some
observations about my time on board the Queen Mary 2. We didn't stop in any
ports, so it was just what we did on board.

WWII Veteran Presentations
==========================

One of the main reasons we went on this cruise was because the *Greatest
Generations Foundation*, a group which helps tell the stories of WWII veterans,
was on board with 21 WWII veterans. The Cunard Cruise Line and the Greatest
Generations foundation had coordinated events every morning where one or two of
the veterans were interviewed by a host and were able to tell their stories
about WWII. The host was a man from local television in Denver, so it was funny
seeing him in person. In addition to the host, there were a few Vietnam Veteran
"escorts" who helped the WWII veterans throughout the cruise.

.. raw:: html

    <table class="gallery">
      <tr>
        <td>
          <a href="./images/veterans-0.jpg" target="_blank">
            <img src="./images/veterans-0.jpg"
              alt="Picture of two veterans giving their presentation." />
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="./images/veterans-1.jpg" target="_blank">
            <img src="./images/veterans-1.jpg"
              alt="Picture of two veterans giving their presentation." />
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="./images/veterans-2.jpg" target="_blank">
            <img src="./images/veterans-2.jpg"
              alt="Picture of two veterans giving their presentation." />
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
    </table>

The veterans' experiences spanned the entire war. One of the veterans was a
sailor on board one of the ships in Pearl Harbor on the December 7, 1941 while
another veteran was the radio operator in Eisenhower's war room on VE Day who
sent the message that Germany had surrendered to the allies.

The one who was there at Pearl Harbor, Stu, was on a ship that was hit by a
torpedo (maybe multiple torpedos, I don't remember exactly) and was rapidly
listing to that side. It was saved from capsizing due to the heroic work of some
sailors on another boat who tore holes on the other side of the boat so that it
sank straight down, rather than sideways. Stu escaped his ship by swimming to
shore through water that was covered in burning oil from ruptured fuel tanks.
He came up for breath once, in the middle of the inferno, and I remember him
clearly saying "that was the hottest breath of air I've ever taken".

A few of the veterans were captured and were held as prisoners of war, and one
one of the days they related their stories. On Memorial Day, which happened
during the cruise, they did a special session featuring the Vietnam Veterans
presenting the colours. Then, they had a special guest join one of the veterans.
General Matz, appointed by Donald Trump as the secretary of the American Battle
Monuments Commission, talked about the work that the Battle Monuments Commission
does to maintain the cemeteries, memorials, and monuments commemorating the
sacrifices of the U.S. Armed Forces overseas.

On the last day of the crossing, one of the veterans played his saxophone. I was
very impressed that he was able to do that, considering his age! They also had
all of the veterans up on stage at that time, and I got a picture.

.. image:: ./images/veteran-sax.jpg
   :align: center
   :target: ./images/veteran-sax.jpg
   :width: 75%

Many of the veterans on board participated in the D-Day landings. In fact, many
of them are continuing on to the 75th Anniversary of D-Day commemorations that
are taking place in Normandy on June 6th of this year. Two of the veterans
parachuted into Normandy behind enemy lines on the night of June 5th, 1944.
Another two or three were part of the Navy and Marine corps that bombarded
Normandy, and took men onto the shores. I don't remember if any of them landed
on the shores or not. The unifying theme for all of them was that no Hollywood
movie does the horrors of war justice. *Saving Private Ryan* was mentioned many
times as being the closest approximation to the carnage. One of the veterans
said that the real thing was like "tak[ing] *Saving Private Ryan*, and mak[ing]
it ten times worse". Another one said that "the main omission was the body parts
strewn across the beach and in the water". Hearing their accounts gave me a much
greater appreciation for the slaughter that happened on the beaches of Normandy.

One of the veterans story was especially moving to me. It was Frank Divita, a
man from New York City. He had a distinct New York accent, and in another life
could have easily played the tough New York organized crime gangster in a movie
(or in real life, for that matter). But his tough guy appearance melted away
quickly when he began talking about his experiences in the war, specifically on
D-Day. He was a Marine on one of the landing craft (LCMs) that took men to the
shores on D-Day. His job was to lower the ramp to let the men out, but also let
the German machine gun bullets in. He had moved to this position after his
crewmate who was originally in that role had been killed. He talked about
hearing the bullets hitting the front of the craft and freezing when he was
supposed to lower the ramp. As soon as he lowered it, machine gun fire rained
in. The two men next to him were hit immediately. He related his fear that he
would be next. I think that Frank mentioned that one of the wounded beside him
actually survived, despite taking multiple bullets. The other one was fatally
wounded. As Frank talked about him, you could tell that he became very
emotional. He talked about how the man was really no more than a boy, maybe 18
or 19 years old. As the boy lay on the floor of the LCM, he cried out for his
mother. Frank said a prayer over him, and administered some morphine. "And
then,", said Frank, clearly having a hard time getting the words out, "he
died.". Watching this man, now in his 90s, who looked like your typical New York
City tough-guy, nearly breaking down as he described what had happened to him
three-quarters of a century ago was very impactful. I will never forget his
story.

Making Some New Friends
=======================

On a lighter note, I met a bunch of people and made some new friends. Mom and I
were at a table with two other couples. One was from England, and one was from
Sweden originally, but now live in California. The Swedish couple were heading
over for the summer to their home in Sweden, and the couple from England were
heading back home after having gone the other direction on the Queen Mary 2 last
week. Both of the men were retired engineers. It seemed like quite a few of the
people that we met were engineers, and mom and I decided that the reason for
that was that engineers tend to make enough money to live comfortably and go on
cruises, but not enough money to be in the large suites at the front of the boat
with their own, more exclusive dining room.

I was initially worried that I would be the only one on board under 45, but
luckily I was proven wrong almost immediately. Before we even left New York, I
met a guy named Chase who is also 21. He is headed to Spain for the summer for a
study abroad program. We hit it off immediately, since he was a history major,
and I love history.

The next day, I met three teenage guys at the ping-pong tournament. They were
cousins and were onboard with their grandma. Two of them, Graham and Griffin,
are heading in to their senior year of high school while the other, Blake, is
heading into his freshman year (I think) of high school. We ended up hanging out
quite a bit during the :strike:`cruise` crossing. That evening, there was a
Young Adults get-together. I met quite a few more young people at that event.
One of them was Ryan, who just graduated with a degree in computer science and
is going to start at Raytheon. Also there were two sisters, Gretchen and Meghan,
and Trueman, and two young businessmen, Richard and Jakub, with their manager
who had somehow convinced their company to pay for the cruise instead of
airfare.

I ran into another teenager, Aaron, on the third or forth day after going to a
movie showing. He was very glad to find somebody younger, and he ended up
hanging out with us some. There were a few other young people here and there,
but I didn't see much of them so they don't get a mention here, mainly because I
forgot their names... (I have gotten better at remembering names though, at the
young adults get-together, I learned everyone's names after maybe 20 minutes or
so and there were around 10 people.)

Overall, I enjoyed meeting all of those people and hanging out with them. It was
surprising how quickly we all fell into a routine. I think it's a testament to
the power of normalcy. Every day for me went something like this:

- Wake up right before the veterans presentation, and stumble into that at
  10:00.
- Go eat some breakfast/lunch, sometimes running into some friends.
- Go to the pool for a few hours (normally with Chase or the cousins), and
  potentially go to some lecture or other event.
- Play in the ping-pong tournament. I almost always was out in the first or
  second round. Graham was way better and won a couple of the tournaments.
- On a few of the days, Graham, Griffin, Blake, and I we went with their grandma
  to afternoon tea.
- Go to afternoon trivia in the Golden Lion Pub. (I am not good at trivia, but I
  pretend to know what I'm doing and make everyone else on my team answer the
  questions.)
- Maybe hop back in the pool for half an hour.
- Get ready for dinner and go eat.
- Go to Wipeout Trivia and get destroyed again.
- Go to the show, listen to live music somewhere, or otherwise hang out.
- Go to bed.

It was fairly busy, but also relaxing at the same time. There was enough of a
variety of activities that I was not bored. I was pretty proud of myself, I even
went to the gym once. I played a couple of games of chess, too. When I don't
blunder, I can hold my own against most people who haven't studied chess
extensively.

Learning Something New
======================

In addition to the veterans' presentations, there were a few guest lecturers on
board who gave talks about their topic of expertise. One man, Nigel West, was an
expert in the history of intelligence, mainly of British Intelligence. (His real
name is Rupert Allason, and he is a former politician in the UK Conservative
Party.) He gave two lectures on the boat, one about GARBO, a double agent
working for Britain during WWII, and the other on the Special Relationship
between 10 Downing and the White House.

GARBO was the codename of Juan Pujol García, a Spanish double agent who worked
with the British to give misinformation to German Intelligence. At the war's
outset, GARBO unsuccessfully attempted to lend his services to MI5, the British
Intelligence agency but promptly went to the Germans in Spain to give his offer
his "support" to them. They accepted. He moved to Lisbon (on the German's dime)
and began to send the Germans information about the British. He had never been
to the UK, so his main sources of intelligence were what he read in British
newspapers and at in the library in Lisbon. He began to build out a fake network
of sup-agents who "fed" him information that he then forwarded on to the
Germans. Eventually, the British took notice of GARBO's potential as a double
agent and had him moved to London where he continued to build out his "network"
of spies. Despite many "setbacks" that GARBO faced (such as one of his "agents"
falling ill and dying conveniently right before a massive troop movement), his
intelligence was so "valuable" to the Germans that they did not attempt to set
up any other spy networks. (The Germans were so saddened by the death of the
fictitious sub-agent, that they gave his wife a pension, which GARBO took for
himself.)

GARBO's biggest achievement was his crucial role in Operation Fortitude which
successfully deceived the German High Command, all the way up to Hitler himself,
into believing that the Normandy Invasion was a diversion, and that the *real*
landing would occur in the Pas-de-Calais. GARBO became so trusted by the Germans
that even after they had lost the war, GARBO (known by the Germans as *Alaric*)
was awarded the Iron Cross for his service to the Third Reich.

The other talk was about the Special Relationship between 10 Downing and the
White House. The basic gist of it was describing the way that American and
British intelligence agencies have shared information and resources since the
Second World War. The details of this one were not so memorable, but two of the
anecdotes that he talked about highlight the cooperation very well.

First, during the Cold War, the British were unable to fund the technological
developments required for intercepting and deciphering Soviet radio signals
which bounced of off the ionosphere. The Americans did, however. The problem was
that intercepting those signals which bounced off of the ionosphere required
receivers to be placed in specific locations on the globe, locations where the
Americans had no presence. The British, however, at this time still had a
massive Empire, with land around the globe. Many of those British holdings were
in strategic locations, perfect for intercepting Soviet radio traffic. Thus, the
British gave the Americans control over portions on their land holdings, and the
Americans provided the technology. To this day, many British holdings with
military installations have more Americans that Brits.

The second anecdote had to do with submarines, specifically the British Nuclear
Submarine Fleet. British nuclear submarines are autonomously commanded so that
in the event of a catastrophic destruction of the British Government, each
submarine can still operate and, if necessary, retaliate with nuclear weapons.
In such an apocalyptic event, the way each submarine commander must act is
dictated by the Prime Minister in the *letters of last resort*. Although
confidential, and never known to anyone besides the Prime Minister until the
letters must be opened, the letters say for the submarine commander to do one of
four things: retaliate with nuclear weapons, do not retaliate, use his or her
own judgement, or place the submarine under the command of the current occupant
of the White House.

Both of the talks that I went to were extremely interesting, and I feel like I
understand a little more about how intelligence agencies operate.

It's Showtime!
==============

One of the cool things about the ship is that there is a ton of entertainment
options. There were movie showings almost every day, and every night there was a
live show. Some of the movies were lame, and some of the shows were not
interesting to me, but there were quite a few good performances and movies.

I watched three films while on-board the ship. *First Man*, *Darkest Hour*, and
a Planetarium show. I will not belabour my reviews of these, as the first two
are available for you to watch yourself, and the planetarium show was mediocre.

*First Man* is a film about the moon landing, from the perspective of Neil
Armstrong. I thought it was a good film, and the cinematography was great. I
have heard that people complained about it not showing the planting of the
American flag on the surface of the moon, and I thought that was a clear
omission. I don't find it offensive though, the plot of the movie centred around
the death of Neil's daughter which occurred prior to his moon landing and his
struggles to cope with that.

*Darkest Hour* was amazing. Gary Oldman who played Churchill was brilliant, and
Ben Mendelsohn, who seems to be playing King George VI in films a lot these
days, played the King. The film doesn't really make much sense if you don't know
at least some of the history of Dunkirk and Neville Chamberlain. It also doesn't
make much sense if you don't know anything about parliamentary politics.
Luckily, a similar parliamentary situation to the one that occurred near the
outset of WWII is occurring right now in Britain. The Conservative Party still
has power, but Chamberlain was ousted as Prime Minister during a vote of no
confidence; much like May was. The movie centres around the power struggle to
determine the new leader of the Party, and the nation. (SPOILER ALERT) Churchill
wins and leads Britain through the war. A tangential story is the relationship
between Churchill and his secretary who helps him write his speeches. It is a
brilliant film, and a fitting one considering the veterans on board, and the
upcoming D-Day commemorations.

The show at the planetarium was cool, because I can now say that I have seen a
show in a planetarium at sea, but other than that, it was not a great show. The
imagery was good, but I didn't think that it had a good narrative (in fact, I'm
not even sure that it had a narrative at all). Anyway, it was a fun thing to get
to do, regardless.

The live shows were good. The cruise line has singers and dancers that are
contracted for six month periods, and they did three or four shows. They are
decent, but not anything to write home about. However, they also bring on guest
performers. The ones on this cruise were pretty good.

The best one, in my opinion, was a pianist. He was extremely enthusiastic, and
you can really tell he was exerting himself as he played. He played a very large
variety of pieces ranging from classical music to scores from Broadway musicals.
At the very end of his second show, he took requests from the audience for songs
to put together into a medley. The requests varied from *Yellow Submarine* to
*Flight of the Bumblebee*. He took maybe 15 different songs, and wove pieces
them all together with amazing transitions between songs.

The next best was the stand-up comedian. His humor was funny, clean, and totally
accurate. I don't remember much of the jokes, but I was laughing for most of it.

The last guest performer was a singer from the West End (London's Broadway). She
had a great voice, and I thought she was pretty good, but one show would have
been enough. During the second show, I was with Graham, Griffin, and Blake and
we decided to go somewhere for me and Graham to have a rematch game of chess
outside of the theatre where we could still hear her as background music.

--------------

Overall, the crossing was a very enjoyable experience. I made some new friends,
had the privilege of hearing from heroes of WWII, learned some things about
intelligence and Parliamentary politics, and enjoyed some live shows.
