---
title: "About"
---

Hello, welcome to my website! I am so glad you stopped by to check it out!

Let me introduce myself. My name is Sumner, I am 22 years old and live in
Denver, Colorado. I am a Software Engineer at [The Trade
Desk](https://www.thetradedesk.com/) and an Adjunct Professor at [Colorado
School of Mines](https://mines.edu). I graduated with my undergraduate degree in
Computer Science from Colorado School of Mines in May 2018 and then graduated
with my masters degree in Computer Science from Mines in May 2019.

Things I'm passionate about:

* Programming
* Computer Science
* Software Architecture and Software Engineering
* CS Education
* Self hosting and owning my data
* Free and Open Source Software

I'm grateful to have a great job where I am able to exercise my love of
programming and computer science. On the side, I work on a variety of open
source projects, which you can find on my [portfolio][1].

I was homeschooled through high school, but I also attended Red Rocks Community
College doing a few classes a semester during high school. I also worked at
[Can/Am Technologies](https://canamtechnologies.com/) as a software developer
during high school. (See my [portfolio][1] for more info).

When I'm not working, I enjoy playing soccer, volleyball, and I've been getting
into racquetball lately. During high school, I won the FRCCA State Championship
with Denver Eagles my senior year. I also used to practice TaeKwonDo regularly,
but I have not had enough time since I started college.  While I did TaeKwonDo,
I achieved my 3rd Degree Black Belt.

This site is the place to get updates on my life. I maintain a [blog](/) here
where I post occasionally. I post about my travels, technology, politics, etc.
On my portfolio page, I have an up-to-date overview of [my professional
achievements][1]. I also have an always-up-to-date link to my
[resume](/portfolio/resume.pdf) there. You can also find links to all of the
social media accounts that I actually use from this site.

Happy reading!

[1]: {{< ref "/portfolio" >}}
