Title: Day 6: At Sea
Date: 2012-05-09 15:40
Author: sumner
Category: Uncategorized
Tags: Cruise and Europe
Slug: day-6_09
Status: published

**Sumner:**  
The day started out really late today, ten o'clock for me. We didn't go
to breakfast because we were going to have lunch in just a few hours. I
decided to go up to the crows nest but on the way I saw a boy that was
bouncing a ping-pong ball on a paddle. He looked like he was just
slightly bored. So I asked him if he wanted to play. We played ping-pong
for about half an hour and then Colton, that's the boys name, and I went
down to the theater to watch a talk about the history of the cruise
boat. I met Oma and mom down there at the talk, which was very
interesting. I learned a lot about cruising in the speech. Then we met
up with Hannah went to go eat lunch. After lunch, which was really good,
mom and Oma went to go watch another talk and I went up to the crows
nest to do my class. While I was waiting for the ladies to show up the
people that I had done the trivia with yesterday called me over to play
with them. I didn't help much but it was kinda neat just to listen to
the questions and think of good answers. Anyway, as the people in my
iPad class showed up I asked them if it would be OK if we just met two
hours later at four for the class instead of two because the talk that
mom and Oma were going to was on that the ladies in my class wanted to
go to as well. I decided go go up to Club HAL to see what they were
doing it wasn't anything that I wanted to do at that moment so I went
down to the pool and talked with Colton's brothers and mom. He has two
brothers, one is named Sebastian, the other is Nathan. Colton is ten,
and the others are seven and eight, I just don't know which one is
which. Anyway, I went back up to Club HAL for a few minutes until I went
to go do my iPad class. After class we decided to meet in two days, on
Monday, so that they could try out everything that we had gone over. At
that point it was about time for dinner so we went to the room and got
ready. The food was good and after we had eaten we went to the show.
Today it was an Olympic gymnast performing some things. Mainly he used
silk things that hung from the ceiling to do some tricks on. One time
though he said that he was going to take a break and let the band play
but he went over to the piano and started playing with them! He had
learned to play because for the last few years he as been doing shows on
cruise ships and he had learned from the musicians that he met on the
boats. He also did a few juggling routines, one of witch he did in the
dark with lighted balls. It was really cool. After the show we went back
to the room to go to bed.

\~Sumner

**Hannah:**  
This morning we woke up REALLY late. AGAIN. and I had  
to get to the jewelr's shop for my modeling job. It was fun, but kind
of  
boring after a while. I mean, you have to learn about pearls. And  
what's the difference? Just go for the cheapest! (Why? Because the most  
expensive cost around \$6,500!) But actually, you SHOULD go on the  
internet and look at the differences. there are actually A LOT. I was
at  
the pearl demonstration for the ENTIRE morning. I got pulled away for  
lunch.(luckily :D) Lunch was in the buffet. As usual. Then I went up to  
Club HAL. Oh! I found out what HAL means in Club HAL! HAL means  

<div align="JUSTIFY">

**H**

</div>

**  
**  

<div align="JUSTIFY">

-Holland

</div>

<div align="JUSTIFY">

**A**

</div>

**  
**  

<div align="JUSTIFY">

-America

</div>

<div align="JUSTIFY">

**L**

</div>

**  
**  

<div align="JUSTIFY">

-Line

</div>

<div align="JUSTIFY">

I  
feel SO proud of my self! Anyway. At Club Hal, We played a magazine  
treasure hunt. You had a list, and you looked for those things in
***<u>ONE </u>***magizine.  
I got 19 out of 25 things. I tied for 1st place. We then made door  
hangers. After door hangers, we played X-box 360. I started out with  
batman legos. then I did race cars. Then I did Indiana Jones Legos. I
am  
now waiting for mom to finish her hair, and then we will go up to  
dinner. I promise I will tell you about the rest of the evening.  
\*Hannah\* :B (those are buck teeth)

</div>
