Title: 5-15-2016 Denver, CO to New York, NY
Date: 2016-05-15 20:52
Author: sumner
Category: New England Trip
Tags: Colorado, Denver, Manhattan, New York, New York City, Plane, Time Square, Travel
Slug: den-to-nyc
Status: published

Today my mom and I arrived in New York, New York. We made it through the
Denver TSA Security fairly quickly, and got to our gate with plenty of
time. We boarded the plane without issue, but I had the fortune of
sitting in front of a baby who kicked my seat throughout the flight and
screamed when she wasn’t kicking. (Maybe a slight exaggeration, but not
much of one.) I was able to plug in my headphones and sleep through a
lot of it.

### Welcome to New York {#welcometonewyork}

We arrived in New York but the jetway was having issues so we had to
wait another half an hour for the maintenance crew to come and fix the
jetway. By the time we got to baggage claim (we were at the back of the
plane, so we were essentially last), there were only a few bags left. We
got our bags and headed to the taxi queue. While in line, we got our
first introduction to New York. The dispatcher who told people which
taxi to go to got in an argument with one of the taxi drivers.
Apparently the taxi driver had done something wrong or annoying. F-bombs
were flying around between them and one guy in line said “I’m home now”.
We eventually got a taxi, but the traffic between the LaGuardia Airport
and Penn Station in Manhattan where we are staying was atrocious. It
took about 45 minutes to go like 9 miles.

### Our Hotel {#ourhotel}

We are staying in an old hotel called Hotel Pennsylvania. It is right
across from Pennsylvania Station in Midtown Manhattan. There is a subway
station close by as well. When we arrived, there were about 100 people
in line to check in and when we had finally gotten checked in, the line
was still just as long. I guess that’s what happens when your hotel is
18 stories high and covers almost an entire city block.

### Out on the Town {#outonthetown}

After dropping our stuff off at the room, the first order of business
was to get food in our stomachs. We hadn’t eaten since before boarding
our flight in DIA. We wandered around a bit and took some pictures. I
have decided that every single building here is tall. Even unimpressive
buildings are tall. I wonder if being around tall buildings makes
people's egos tall... That would explain a lot.

[![](http://www.the-evans.family/sumner/blog/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/img_1534-1.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-805 width="3196"
height="2396"}](http://www.the-evans.family/sumner/blog/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/img_1534-1.jpg)  
We ended up at a pizza restaurant because that seemed like an
appropriate thing to do considering New York is famous for its pizza. It
was very similar to Garlic Knot pizza back home which makes sense
because Garlic Knot boasts that it s New York style pizza.

We then walked up towards Time Square. That place is pretty cool. The
pictures do not do it justice. If you stand in the middle of Time Square
(a feat which is in and of itself difficult with all of the people
moving about) you can see two lighted billboard stacks and there are
screens all around the outside of the square as well. We walked around
soaking up the sights and took a few pictures. (Actually, I didn’t take
any pictures because my phone died. Good job me.)

We then headed back to the hotel where I am writing this now. Tomorrow
we are getting up early to go out to see the Statue of Liberty and to
Ellis Island.
