---
title: Mines High School Programming Competition 2024
date: 2024-04-14T17:48:00-06:00
categories: [School]
tags: [High School Programming Competition, Competitive Programming, Mines, HSPC]
draft: true
---

.. default-role:: math

For the last six years, Mines ACM has hosted a High School Programming
Competition (HSPC) modelled after the `International Collegiate Programming
Contest (ICPC) <icpc_>`_. I wrote about the `2019 <hspc2019_>`_, `2020
<hspc2020_>`_, `2021 <hspc2021_>`_, `2022 <hspc2022_>`_, and `2023 <hspc2023_>`_
competitions on this blog. The problems from every year are new and written by
Mines students and some Mines alum specifically for the competition. This year,
I wrote two of the problems, reviewed all of them, and helped Ethan Richards
with organizing the competition.

.. _icpc: https://icpc.global/
.. _hspc2019: {{< ref "./2019-hspc" >}}
.. _hspc2020: {{< ref "./2020-hspc" >}}
.. _hspc2021: {{< ref "./2021-hspc" >}}
.. _hspc2022: {{< ref "./2022-hspc" >}}
.. _hspc2023: {{< ref "./2023-hspc" >}}

This year, we returned to an in-person only competition, however we opened up an
open division to remote competitors. We also continued our open-internet policy
which allowed students to access internet resources.

New this year, we decided to give special awards for teams consisting of
exclusively first-time competitors.

We had sixteen different problems written by eleven authors (the highest number
of authors ever).

The in-person competition featured 27 teams which is lower than some previous
years, but still a great turnout. We expected more, but it turned out some had
signed up for the in-person competition when they wished to compete in the open
division.

In this post, I'm going to explain the problems in the competition (with
relatively detailed solution sketches).

.. Competition Highlights
.. ======================

**You can view full standings for each competition at the following websites:**

* In-Person: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24
* Open: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24-open

.. As with all of the HSPC competitions so far, this year's competition was very
.. exciting.

.. Highlights from the in-person competition include:

.. * River Hill High School, the winners of the 2021 competition who placed third
..   last year, regained the title winning first place. They solved all twelve
..   problems to beat Cherry Creek High School's remote team.
.. * Cherry Creek High School (last year's third-place winners) solved all twelve
..   problems, but lost on the time tiebreaker to River Hill.
.. * New participants Bergen County Academics with their team *JMS* took third
..   place solving eleven problems.
.. * River Hill was first to solve seven of the problems, while Cherry Creek were
..   first to solve on two problems. Bergen County's team was first to solve on two
..   problems. Team *Triangle* (5th) out of Voice of Calling NPO in of Northridge,
..   California were first to solve on a problem as well.

The Problems
============

.. warning::

   The rest of this post should be treated like a solutions manual. I hope that
   this is an extremely helpful resource when you get stuck, but you should
   *try* to solve each of the problems before reading the solutions. There's no
   magic amount of time that you should try to solve the problem before looking
   at the solution sketch, but I think a good rule of thumb is after you've
   tried at least three ideas on your own, then you can read at the solution
   sketch.

   **Remember: You will not learn anything if you just read the explanations!**

There were sixteen problems in the competition written by eleven different
authors (the most ever). The problems can be viewed at
https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24/problems. The following
lists the problems featured in the competition and a short description of the
algorithm required to solve the problem, listed in the order in which they
appeared in competition:

**Beginner Competition:**

- **A: Parking Pandemonium** -- Basic arithmetic.
- **B: Closing Early** -- Modular arithmetic in a ``for`` loop.
- **C: Clock Catchup** -- Modular arithmetic related to time.
- **D: New Professor** -- Priority-queue or repeatedly sorted list processing.
- **E: Exact Change** -- Modular arithmetic.
- **F: Win Streak** -- List processing.
- **G: Winning Wagers** -- Expected value.
- **H: Warehouse Stocking** -- Dictionary and reverse-lookup dictionary.
- **I: Trolley Troubles** -- 0-1 BFS or Dijkstra's.
- **J: M-Climb Road** -- Basic arithmetic.
- **K: Purchasing Perishables** -- Finding optimal sequential-window size in a
  list.
- **L: Abby's Absolutes** -- Inequality check in a ``for`` loop.
- **M: Mines Motor Company** -- Manhattan distances in a ``for`` loop.
- **N: No Stragglers** -- Keep track of single variable state in a ``for`` loop.
- **O: QWERTY** -- Cipher based
- **P: Procrastination** -- 

The following subsections are going to describe the problems and provide fairly
detailed solution sketches for each one, sorted by their intended relative
difficulty with the easiest ones first.

I do not try and build up from first principles in each of these explanations.
Rather, I try and make the explanations accessible to anyone who feels like
solving the problem is within their grasp, but they can't figure out one or two
of the key ideas to crack the problem. For the easiest problems, I start much
closer to first principles, but as the problems get harder, I start assuming
more and more base understanding of programming.

Additionally, I'm only presenting a single solution for each problem here. There
are likely many alternative ways to solve many of these problems.

.. note::

   Many of these problem solutions were written and edited by other people
   including Kelly Dance, Shashank Bhatt, and Nathan George.

Parking Pandemonium
-------------------

:Description: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24/problems/parkingpandemonium
:Author: Sumner Evans
:In Competition: Problem A, 27/49 (55%) solved/tries, 100% solve rate
:Concept: basic operations on variables

.. admonition:: Problem Summary

   Calculate the amount of times it takes for Hannah to find a parking spot
   given that she circles the lot `C` times at `M` minutes per circle.

The solution is to read the first and third lines of input and multiply them.
The only difficult thing here is ignoring the second line of input which is the
temperature of the parking lot in Kelvin.

M-Climb Road
------------

:Description: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24/problems/mclimbroad
:Author: Ethan Richards
:In Competition: Problem J, 26/26 (100%) solved/tries, 96% solve rate
:Concept: unit conversion + basic math

.. admonition:: Problem Summary

   You walk along a road that is `5280 \times W` feet long. You get sprayed with
   water every `N` feet. You do not get sprayed at the start, but it possible
   you could get sprayed exactly at the end.

Output `\left\lfloor\frac{5280 W}{N}\right\rfloor`.

The notation `\left\lfloor x\right\rfloor` means round down. This can be
accomplished by doing *integer division* in most languages.

Abby's Absolutes
----------------

:Description: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24/problems/abbysabsolutes
:Author: Levi Sprung
:In Competition: Problem L, 21/40 (52%) solved/tries, 78% solve rate
:Concept: conditional within a loop

.. admonition:: Problem Summary

   Calculate the number of apples that Abby will buy in each of the `K` trips to
   the store that she makes. Given that on the `i^{\text{th}}` trip you want her
   to buy `A_i` apples, but she will buy either 1 or `N` apples on each trip,
   whichever  is closer to your request (or 1 in the case of ties).


Loop over each of the trips. During the `i^{\text{th}}` trip, if `A_i-1 \leq
N-A_i`, then Abby will buy 1 apple, so print 1. Otherwise, she will buy `N`
apples, so print `N`.

QWERTY
------

:Description: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24/problems/qwerty
:Author: Byron Sharman
:In Competition: Problem O, 23/29 (79%) solved/tries, 85% solve rate
:Concept: string transformation

.. admonition:: Problem Summary

   Riley typed some text with the keyboard "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ".
   Translate this message to what it would be if she had typed using a
   "QWERTYUIOPASDFGHJKLZXCVBNM" keyboard. 

Create a map/dictionary to translate from each character typed using the ABCDEF
keyboard, to what it would be on a QWERTY keyboard. Build a new string by
passing each character through this map.
	
An alternative way to solve the problem is to create a string with the QWERTY
keyboard sequence. Then, for every character in the input, determine its index
in the normal alphabet (this can be accomplished by subtracting the ASCII value
for ``'a'`` from the ASCII value of the letter). Use that index to index into
the QWERTY sequence string and print that character.

Exact Change
------------

:Description: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24/problems/exactchange
:Author: Jayden Pahukula
:In Competition: Problem E, 25/31 (81%) solved/tries, 93% solve rate
:Concept: modulo math (or repeated subtraction)

.. admonition:: Problem Summary

   Umbertoland has bill denominations 1, 5, 15, 30, 150. Express `N` dollars
   using as few bills as possible.

Greedily [1]_ use the largest bills possible.

The number of 150 dollar bills is `\left\lfloor\frac{N}{150}\right\rfloor`,
and update `N \leftarrow N - 150 \times \left\lfloor\frac{N}{150}\right\rfloor`.

Repeat until you get down to the 1 dollar bills, and output your answer.

.. [1] A *greedy* approach means that you should make the locally optimal
   decision without considering whether it's globaly optimal.

Win Streak
----------

:Description: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24/problems/winstreak
:Author: Sumner Evans
:In Competition: Problem F, 20/53 (38%) solved/tries, 74% solve rate
:Concept: track longest contiguous sequence within a list

.. admonition:: Problem Summary

   Calculate the longest win streak over `N` games given the scores of your team
   and the opposing teams.

You need variables to keep track of the *current win streak length* and the
*maximum win streak length*. Then, for each game:

* If your team wins, increment the current win streak by 1.
* If your team ties or loses, check if the current win streak is longer than the
  maximum win streak. If it is, set the maximum win streak to the current win
  streak.

  Then, reset the current win streak to 0.

Clock Catchup
-------------

:Description: https://mines-hspc.kattis.com/contests/mines-hspc24/problems/winstreak
:Author: Ethan Richards
:In Competition: Problem C, 20/53 (38%) solved/tries, 74% solve rate
:Concept: clock math

.. admonition:: Problem Summary

   Given a start time and end time of the same day, calculate how many times
   each of the second, minute, and hour hands move onto the the 12.

Let `H_s, M_s, S_s` and `H_e, M_e, S_e` be the hour, minute, and second of the
start time and end time, respectively.

The hour hand cross once if `H_s < 12 \leq H_e`, otherwise it does not cross at
all.

The minute hand crosses `H_e-H_s` times.

The second hand crosses `60 \times (H_e - H_s) + (M_e - M_s)` times.




nostragglers
purchasingperishables
closingearly
winningwagers
warehousestocking
procrastination
minesmotorcompany
trolleytroubles
newprofessor
