Title: Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Date: 2016-06-12 09:44
Author: sumner
Category: New England Trip
Tags: Canada, Montreal, Quebec, Travel, Underground City
Slug: montreal-2
Status: published

Today we rode the entire hop on hop off circuit and walked around the
Montreal underground city.

### Tim Hortons

For breakfast we decided to go to Tim Hortons. It’s the thing to do in
Canada. I got a coffee. Because that’s what you do at Tim’s.

![Cup of Tim Hortons coffee]({static}/images/new-england-trip/tim-hortons.jpg)

### Hop on Hop Off Bus

It was raining very hard as the weather report predicted so we didn’t
want to do anything outside. (We were extremely glad that we’d done all
of the outside stuff yesterday.) The hop on hop off bus was a double
decker bus with an open top, but the bottom was covered. We had to walk
to the bus stop though, and we got pretty wet doing so.

The tour guide was quite a character. He was very knowledgable about
both Canadian and American history and he tied the two together in a way
I’d never heard. The Eastern provinces of Canada have a lot of history
in common with the New England states. They were all originally British
colonies so when the American colonies declared independence, many
American politicians expected the Canadians to join them. Benjamin
Franklin spent a long time in Canada attempting to encourage the
Canadiens (French Canadians) to join the Patriot cause. In an attempt to
throw the British out of the Province of Quebec and win the French
people for the Revolutionary Cause, the Continental Amry invaded Quebec.
Montreal was taken and for a few months it was an American city. The
invasion ultimately failed outside of Quebec City when a blizzard
inflicted huge losses for the Americans who were dressed in summer
uniforms.

Since we’d done portions of the bus circuit yesterday, our guide didn’t
tell us much new, but he was very funny. There was a lady behind us who
was on her phone the entire time. Her phone was whistling all the time
from texts and she didn’t ever silence it. Eventually the guide came up
and was like “you don’t need this tour, you could have stayed home” and
she still didn’t stop. Whenever her phone would whistle, he would
imitate it in the microphone.

### Underground City

Once the tour was done, we went back into the tourist information center
to be dry. We had heard that Montreal has an “underground city” so we
tried to figure out how to get to said underground city. We ran into a
few ladies that we’d met one evening on the cruise ship. We’d ran into
them again in Montreal at Mass and then we saw them again at the visitor
information center. It was very amusing that we ran in to them so many
times. All that was to say that the pointed out that on a certain map
there is a blue underlay which shows the underground city.

Essentially the underground city is just a series of basements
connection to each other via tunnels. (Actually, a lot of it is actually
above ground, but it is all inside which is what we wanted because we
did not want to go out in the rain.) The area we went down into was one
of the busiest areas of the underground city. It was like the size of
all of the malls in Denver combined and it was busy! We walked around a
bit and then grabbed a bite to eat in one of the biggest food courts
ever. There were probably 15 vendors in the food court. The whole area
was very impressive.

Our hotel isn't part of the underground city but there was a building
only a block away from our hotel that was part of the underground city.
Not wanting to go out into the rain, we decided to walk all the way
around to that building in the underground city. The main part of the
underground city is in the shape of a U. We started at the top of the
left side and went all the way around to the middle of the bottom side.
It was very out of the way (especially considering we got lost a couple
times).

After leaving the top part of the left side of the U, the underground
city was not nearly as nice. It was mainly just a walkway that connected
some building’s basements to each other. It was a bit odd because we
were basically the only people walking in the passageways. We emerged
from the underground city and walked the block to our hotel and called
it a day. I dealt with a few things on my computer and we checked in to
our flight to Atlanta. We are going to fly to Atlanta tomorrow and rent
a car. Hannah is down there already with family so we are going to pick
her up and visit some friends and family in Georgia.

This will conclude my coverage of our trip. It was an awesome trip full
of history and I really enjoyed spending time with mom. I will be
writing some more posts about my overall thoughts on the trip and the
individual places we went, but I have no timeline for that.
