Title: New York, New York
Date: 2016-05-17 19:00
Author: sumner
Category: New England Trip
Tags: Bike, Bus Tour, Central Park, Intrepid Museum, New York, Rockefeller Center, Top of the Rock, Travel
Slug: new-york-2
Status: published

Although it's the 18th, I'll be writing this as if it were yesterday.

**TL;DR** today we rode the Big Bus tour bus around Lower Manhattan.
Then we walked to the Intrepid Museum. After that we went biked around
in Central Park and went to the Rockefeller Complex.

### Big Bus Tour {#bigbustour}

We started our day by getting on the Big Bus tour, the tour we got
tickets for yesterday morning. The bus stopped right outside our hotel
which was nice. Unfortunately we had no idea the exact location it would
stop so we wandered around asking people. We managed to find the correct
spot and board the bus. There was a guide who gave information about the
sights we were seeing from the bus. He was a New York Native who grew up
somewhere near Central Park. We drove past a bunch of interesting sites
in downtown New York. Everything from museums and monuments to Wall
Street and Broadway. I would elaborate on what we learned, but that
would be a lot of writing so I won't. Besides, judging by the dismal
number of views I’m getting on my posts, you probably don’t care anyway.

I will mention one more thing: the best quote from the guide:

> Choice, seems to be a thing these days, you can choose anything.
>
>   *~ the Tour Guide*

### The Intrepid Museum {#theintrepidmuseum}

We got off the bus and walked over to the Intrepid Museum. The Intrepid
was an aircraft carrier which served during WWII and Vietnam.

The first thing we did was watch a film about the carrier. The film
featured veterans of the ship from the two conflicts it was in.
Interestingly, John McCain served on the Intrepid during the Vietnam
conflict. The film also featured a Mercury astronaut and a Japanese
Imperial Air Force member.

During WWII, the Intrepid took part in many battles including the Battle
for the Philippines. It was struck by four Kamikaze strikes but never
sank (obviously). The Intrepid was also used during the Space Race. It
was the vessel that the Mercury capsules were hoisted onto after making
their water landings. During the Vietnam war, pilots from the Intrepid
took part in strategic bomb strikes in North Vietnam. The Intrepid was
called back into service after 9/11 and acted as the FBI headquarters
for a time. (I’m pretty sure it was FBI, it might have been some other
agency.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

After viewing the film and learning about the history of the ship we
walked around the hangar deck (the deck right beneath the flight deck
(the top deck)) and looked around that the displays. It’s called the
hangar deck because that’s where they store the planes before they go up
to the flight deck. We then went up to the flight deck and looked at
more planes up there. Then we went up to the bridge. The Intrepid was
the flagship for one of the task groups in the task force for the Battle
of the Philippines. We saw the admirals cabin and the room where he
conducted the movements of the entire task group. He didn't actually
have control over the ship, that was the ship’s captain’s
responsibility. The admiral was also only a part of a larger task force.

Next we went into the captain's quarters and to the room where the boat
was steered. The captain didn't actually steer the ship, he only told
the person which way and how fast to go. In fact, the navigator was the
one who actually determined what course needed to be taken.

[![The Bridge of the
Intrepid]({static}/images/new-england-trip/intrepid.jpg)]({static}/images/new-england-trip/intrepid.jpg)
*The Bridge of the Intrepid*

### Failing Remedial Bus 057 {#failingremedialbus057}

The next thing we wanted to do was go bike around in Central Park. We
elected to ride the bus up to Central Park so we waited at the bus stop
for the correct bus. It came and pulled over and we were very proud of
ourselves for being in the right place. Then it took back off into
traffic. The driver totally left us behind. I guess we were supposed to
wave him down or something. Anyway, we didn't even have a chance to try
Bus 101, we flunked out at Bus 057: Remedial Getting On Bus class.

### No Soup For You! {#nosoupforyou}

Because of our epic failure to get on the bus, we had to walk to Central
Park. On our way, we came across The Soup Man of Seinfeld fame. Look it
up. I got jambalaya and I even got bread and an apple with it. We
thought it might have been funny if we made him mad and see if he'd
actually say "No Soup for You!" but we didn't. We walked into Central
Park and ate our soup. It was really good. (I'm pretty sure everything
would have seemed good at that point, I don’t even remember what we'd
eaten for breakfast that morning.)

### Biking Central Park {#bikingcentralpark}

After lunch we rented bikes using our New York Pass and rode around in
Central Park. Central Park was full of activity. There kids practicing
for track and soccer and playing baseball. We saw families with children
playing on the playgrounds. There were also people running and biking
(and passing us slowpokes). People from all socioeconomic levels were in
Central Park. Everyone from the mentally ill homeless person to the
affluent family biking home from a grocery store run were in the same
park sharing the same space. It seemed like a very unifying space. The
bike ride was very relaxing and I can understand the appeal it has to
the many residents of New York.

### Top of the Rock {#topoftherock}

We returned our bikes and walked over to the Rockefeller Center, a
complex that takes up multiple city blocks and includes the offices and
studios for NBC (including MSNBC) and FOX. (I know, the media arch
rivals have offices within a few hundred metres of each other. We began
by joining a guided tour of the center (also on the New York Pass). The
guide explained some of the history of the building and of the
Rockefeller family. I'll summarize it here,

Essentially John D. Rockefeller got really rich on oil with the Standard
Oil Company. The government forced him to split his company because at
that point he controlled vast portions of the oil industry in the United
States. The companies that broke off became big in their own right (Exon
and Chevron). Rockefeller had stock in all of the break-off companies
and he died with a net worth of something to the order of $300 billion
of today’s dollars. Rockefeller was the richest person in US history.
His son, John D. Rockefeller Jr. (Junior) inherited the entirety of his
fathers fortune. It was Junior who built the Rockefeller Center. He
began the project in the 1930s as a joint project with someone, but then
the stock market crashed and the other party ran out of funding. So he
funded the entire thing out of pocket. His wife inspired much of the art
in the Rockefeller Center because she was a modern art admirer.

Anyway, we walked around as he explained some of the art and
architecture of the Center. At this point, it was getting late and we
wanted to go to the top of the Rockefeller Center before it got dark so
we left the tour after half an hour. On the way up to the Rockefeller
Center observation deck, we passed through a whole bunch of queues that
would have been awful to stand in during high tourism season. It did
take a while to get to the top, but it wasn't nearly as bad as it could
have been.

The reason we wanted to come up to the top of the Rockefeller Center at
this time was to get a view of New York in the daytime. One neat thing
about the Rockefeller Center’s observation deck is that you can see the
Empire State Building from the observation deck.

[![Views from the Top of the Rockefeller
Building.]({static}/images/new-england-trip/nyc4.jpg)]({static}/images/new-england-trip/nyc4.jpg)
*Views from the Top of the Rockefeller Building. Originally posted on
Instagram.*

### Business, Dinner and Bed {#businessdinnerandbed}

We went from the Rockefeller Center back to our hotel room because I had
to do a webinar thing for Colorado School of Mines. After that, we went
to get some dinner (we were both starving) and then I finished my blog
and went to bed.
