Title: Day 24: Athens, Greece
Date: 2012-06-02 20:31
Author: sumner
Category: Transatlantic Cruise and Europe
Slug: day-24-athens-greece
Status: draft

Today started off with breakfast and after we had consumed our food we
headed out of the ship and hopped on the shuttle to the terminal. There
we met our guide and walked to their car. We then rode to the acropolis
and parked at a parking lot that was kinda like a valet parking area.
She gave the keys to the guy and then we headed off up the acropolis
museum so that we could hopefully avoid some of the crowds by doing is
before going to the acropolis. Inside we were able to see the many
statues that were found in the acropolis area. On the acropolis is a
temple to \[NAME OF GOD\]. This temple has some statues with the form of
a lady that are used to make the pillars for the temple facade. On one
side of the facade he statues have their left leg forward and on the
other side they have he right leg forward. Now on the boat there is a
hallway that has a little concave opening with statues that are much
like he ones on the temple on the acropolis. While at one of the port
talks the speaker pointed out that there was one thing wrong with the
statues on the boat, this was that the legs on the statues were not
different, they were the same. Later that day we were walking past them
and saw that they didn't even have either leg forward at all. There were
also many other statues in the museum including the statue of a boy
that, for art historians, marked the begging of truly realistic statues.
The third floor of this museum had the same dimensions as the Parthenon
and faced in the same way. What I mean by this is that on the east side
of the inside of the museum had the same dimensions as the actual
Parthenon and faced in the exact same direction. Now that in and of
itself was interesting but the most interesting part was that the
facades were removed from the Parthenon and moved to the museum. There
they are displayed on the third floor of the building and in the same
place that they were originally on the Parthenon. The front and rear
facades of the building that were on the triangle thing above all of the
pillars were displayed to the greatest extent possible. In some places
however, because the pieces were totally destroyed, there is nothing on
display. Around the whole building was a relief of a scene where people
were taking offerings up to the gods. It started in one corner and went
in both directions meeting on the opposite side where the gods were
receiving the gifts. We then watched a movie about the acropolis we went
out on a deck that was in the third floor and had a great view of the
acropolis and then proceeded onward to he acropolis. It was a fair trek
up to the top of the hill but not too bad. Once there our guide went to
get our tickets and then we entered the acropolis area. From the
beginning it was very neat, almost overwhelming. At the entrance there
was an arch and after going thought the arch on the right side was a
wall maybe ten or so metres high (about 11 yards). This wall was like a
retaining wall around the acropolis. On the ground that the wall is
hiding in is a small temple. It is unique because it is the only temple
on the acropolis that has columns on only the front and back, not on the
sides as well. Back to the entrance in general; although it is in ruins
now in its prime it must have been extremely spectacular. Even now it's
scale is immense. After going through the columns we got our first view
of the Parthenon. I was expecting it to be in a very ruinous state but I
was pleasantly surprised to find that it wasn't that bad considering
that it is almost two thousand five hundred years old. They have done a
good job restoring it and it is now to he point where you can get a good
idea of what the Parthenon looked like. Of course all that you can see
are the columns on the outside as well as some of the inside wall that
held the statue of Athena. Four of the columns are not completely
restored but all of the others are. In most places also the blocks of
stone over the columns are in place as well. He friezes on the
triangular part of the front of the building are gone. They were taken
from Athens to Britain by the Earl of Elgin (he is not popular among the
Greeks). Only a few parts remained in Athens and are displayed in the
acropolis museum. On the left of the Parthenon about fifty to seventy
five metres is the Old Temple of Athena. This temple is the one with the
ladies that are columns. From the acropolis we were also able to have a
great view of the city of Athens. It is a city that is very flat without
many big, tall buildings. From this point also we could see the ocean,
this is rare because of the pollution cloud normally hovers above the
city of Athens and blocks the view of the sea. We then walked back to
our car and got the key back from the buy who had parked the car. Now
the key was broken to begin with, it was broken when she had tried to
get a copy of the key at a shop, she had the copy though. When she tried
to put the broken one it it wouldn't turn. This is because the plastic
part of the key was separated from the metal part so she couldn't get
any leverage. She honked for he guy and there was a long discussion,
then hey tried the other key. It didn't work because it had not been
made exactly correctly or something because the car I think could tell
that it wasn't made by the car company and it had been copied. It then
made it so that the car couldn't start. We stood around for a while and
then she told us that we would change our plans a little and let the men
around the car fix it while we went to eat. We went to a nice restaurant
and had some good food though it was really expensive. When we got back
to the car and found that it wasn't fixed she tried frantically to find
another car. Eventually we left the car and went and got on a bus that
she had gotten for us to ride around in. Now, this bus was one of those
fifty person tour busses that we had to go on for a few of our
excursions and it was kinda amusing because we had it all to ourselves.
Four people in this enormous bus. We kept on joking that we might be in
someones way. Of course by this time it was an hour before we wanted to
be back at the boat so we didn't get much more touring. We did take a
peek at the original modern Olympics stadium, he one that was used when
Greece held the first modern Olympic games. Then we went back to the
boat and, since I had nothing to do after dinner I caught up on my
blog.  
    \~Sumner
