Title: Day 26: Santorini, Greece
Date: 2012-06-02 20:33
Author: sumner
Category: Transatlantic Cruise and Europe
Slug: day-26-santorini-greece
Status: draft

Today started out pretty early because we sailed into the caldera of the
Santorini volcano this morning. We were allowed on the bow to see the
arrival into the area. Because Santorini doesn't have any port remotely
big enough to take a cruise ship we had to anchor out in the middle of
the caldera (cah-ul-dare-uh) and ride the tenders into the port. Mom
didn't like the ride in the tender but it wasn't too long. We met our
guide right as we got off the tender and went together to the cable car.
It is much like the ski gondolas a home, just not so sophisticated. It
was six of them grouped closely together on either end (top or bottom)
one goes on the right side and the other on the left and they alternate
places. If that confused you that's ok because I've confused myself
trying to describe it for you. Anyway once at the top we walked maybe
fifty metres or so, if that and then waited as our guide went for her
car. We went first to the village where all of the pictures of Santorini
are taken. This village is very pretty and has the best views of
anywhere on the island. All of the roofs are blue and the rest all of
the buildings are white. These homes used to be the homes of the poor
while the rich lived on the top of the hill. They are now the most
expensive hotels on Santorini. The reason that these homes started out
as homes for the poor is because they were caves to begin with and then
expanded out on the side of the cliff. It was so serene. We walked all
the way to the end and then went to small castle that is now a tourist
lookout where you could see almost the entire caldera (the fog obscured
some of it), the cruise ship, the old port as well as many other things.
While you admire the view I will pause a moment to tell you some about
the history and shape of Santorini. A long time ago, as in like three
thousand years, Santorini was a large circular volcanic island. Then it
blew up so that it went from being a large mountain to  three islands in
a few seconds. It blew volcanic material up something like twenty six
kilometers or something (16 miles). Regardless it was in the twenties of
kilometers which is really high. Santorini is the biggest of the islands
and is shaped like the letter C. There is another island in between the
ends of the c and one in the center that has come up recently... Only in
the last thousand years or so. This middle island is the new vent for
the volcanic activity. Kinda like Mt. Saint Hellens has a new small pile
of material in the center of the crater Santorini has a new one in he
middle of the caldera. Aft driving around seeing all of the other main
sites we stopped at a place called Akrotiri (ak-row-tear-ee). Akrotiri
is considered the best preserved prehistoric city in the world. It dates
back to two thousand BC and some parts are believed to be from three
thousand BC. That's four to five thousand years old!!! It was kinda
funny because some of the people from our boat, Mrs. Irene and Mr.
\[NAME\], and another couple who they had met who were also from Denver
(Mrs. Irene and Mr. \[NAME\] are from Denver) joined our tour for
Akrotiri. Of course they tipped nicely and it wasn't much trouble for
Georgia (that was the name of our guide) so we let them come along.
Throughout the whole tour we at times had people try to tag along with
us because they wanted to hear what Georgia was saying. It must mean
that she is a good guide. The city that was uncovered by the
archeologists is pretty large. It was probably about one hundred metres
by ninety metres (110 yards by 100yards). And all of it was very well
preserved considering that it is at least four thousand years old. The
walls were intact and still standing, of course they were not complete
but you could tell that they were once walls. There was a sewage system
and the homes had running water and toilets. Very advanced for the time.
We were able to see tubs as well as pots in which they stored goods. All
of which were extremely well preserved surprisingly. I can't describe
everything that we saw but I will tell you that it was very neat to see
such well preserved homes from so long ago. The last thing that we did
is go to the black sand beach. This beach has black sand made from the
volcanic material. It was like nothing that I have ever seen. Even
though it wasn't very hot today, the sand was *very* hot. I can't
imagine what it would be like if it were something like a hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (about 37 degrees centigrade). That was about all
that we did today but I will tell you about one of the tricks that Jeff,
our waiter at dinner gave us. Ok let me back up just a bit and fill you
in. We have open seating at dinner, but we like our table a lot and I
think that they like us so they let us reserve the table for the whole
cruise. Anyway the waiter for the table that we have is Jeff and his
assistant is Weda (mom thinks that there is an e at the end instead of
an a; I disagree). We have become friends with them and every night Jeff
has show us a trick or little puzzle. Today he had a puzzle involving
two glasses and a blueberry. One glass was smaller than the other, this
one was set upright. The other one was put upside down and the blueberry
was put under it inside the cup. Now this wine glass that was upside
down was oddly shaped. The opening was smaller than the rest of the
glass. The goal of the puzzle was to get the blueberry from under the
big glass to the little glass. You could only touch the big glass and it
also had to stay upside down. It took me about two seconds to figure it
out. All you do is \*\*\*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\*\*\* \*\*\*\*\*\* \*\*\*
\*\*\* \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \*\*\*\*\* \*\* \*\*\*\* \*\* \*\* \*\*
\*\*\* \*\*\*\*\*\* \*\* \*\*\* \*\*\*\*\* \*\*\*\* \*\*\*\* \*\*
\*\*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\*\*\*\*\* \*\*\*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\* \*\*\*
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \*\*\*\*. I blotted that out so that you can figure
it out yourselves if you want. I'll show you once we get home. That was
basically the day so I will leave you to wonder what the answer to the
puzzle is.  
    \~Sumner
