Title: Day 25: Ephesus, Turkey
Date: 2012-06-02 20:32
Author: sumner
Category: Transatlantic Cruise and Europe
Slug: day-25-ephesus-turkey
Status: draft

Today's port of call was kusadasi (koo suh dah see), which is the port
where cruise ships dock to get to Ephesus, Turkey (ehf-uh-sis need I
tell you how to pronounce the second word?) Anyway we had to get up
early to go off the ship, six o'clock or so. When we had eaten some
breakfast we proceeded down to the pier and met our guide. We walked
through this little "village" that was covered. It was more of a tourist
trap than anything else. It was made to have a village type feeling but
it was all tourist shops. Our guide said that the shops there were only
opened for the high tourist season and then in the winter the were
closed, during those times it is like a ghost town. After walking
through there we went on to the car and made our way to Ephesus. We
decided to try our best to avoid the crowds by going to a temple turned
into church. It was originally a temple to the gods and then it was
taken over by the Christians and turned into a church. It was so cool to
see. In places they had recycled the stone. One such place was in a wall
where they had taken a broken capital from a pilar and inserted it into
the new wall. The area of this temple is a big religious are because
from one point you can see a pagan temple, a church, a mosque, and if
you go over a hill there is a synagogue. They haven't found the
synagogue but it is written about in the Bible. The nice thing about
this temple was that we didn't have to deal with anyone else in the
ruins because all of the tour busses were elsewhere. After walking
around the ruins for a little while we went to a mosque and looked
around. And then we got back into the car and went to the main ruins of
Ephesus. It was *really* crowded but it was really cool to see the very
places where Paul the Apostle went and preached. We saw two theaters, a
library, toilets as well as many other ruins. There I will only tell you
about the theaters, the library and, the toilets. Both of the theaters
were built into the side of a hill and were pretty big. One was only for
plays and the other was mainly for gladiatorial fights. The bigger one
was the one in which they had the fights and the smaller was for plays.
Both had the half circle shape. We also saw the facade of the library.
It has had to be restored but it still looks really grand. We got some
pictures by it but unfortunately I think we got more of a picture of the
other tourists than the building it was just so crowded :). We also
watched some sort of a gladiatorial reenactment on the road that leaded
to the sea from the theater. The ancient Ephesus that we were able to
see used to be the port, but he river silted up so much that it is now
six miles from the sea. It was actually not he first port of Ephesus
because it used to be even further inland until they moved it to the
place that we went to. After seeing the ruined city we went up a hill to
a place where the Catholics believe the Virgin Mary lived for the last
years of her life. It was more like a shrine to Mary than anything. We
were respectful as we walked through but it really didn't have any
significance to us. There was also this water that was declared holy or
something by some pope sometime. We had some and it was supposed to have
healing properties. It didn't do anything but quench my thirst. Then we
went to a pottery selling place. They showed us the process that they
use to make the pottery and then the guy who showed us opened a door to
show us some of their works (aka buy some of these things). We bought
some small things and then went back to the van. We also went to this
carpet weaving place and were shown how the Turkish carpets are made. He
showed us the cocoons and how they were woven into stings. He also
showed us some of the weaving techniques that they use to weave the
cloth. He then said, after explaining the whole process that he would
show us some of the carpets that they make but mom politely said that we
just came to see how it was made and not to buy carpets. Now we were
expecting it to be any uphill battle to get him to leave us alone but we
were pleasantly surprised that he kindly said thank you for coming and
let us leave. That was really nice for mom. Anyway we made it back to
the boat and I tried to catch up on my blog. I've had a lot more time to
blog because I don't have anyone to hand out with at night so that is I
guess good considering we have so many sea days.  
    \~Sumner
