Title: Day 27: At Sea
Date: 2012-06-07 06:54
Author: sumner
Category: Transatlantic Cruise and Europe
Slug: day-27-at-sea
Status: published

**Sumner:**  
Today I will briefly describe our new room.  
When you came in the door which has the same setup as the door in the
other room and go in one step you are in a corridor that is about two
feet wide (.6 metres). On your left is the bathroom with basically the
same setup as in the other room except it has a bathtub as well. You
then have to close the door by going up beyond it and then turning
around and letting it close. You have to put you back against the
cabinets that make up the other side of the corridor to perform this
action. If you are trying to go out of the bathroom and someone else is
trying to get in you have to open the door to the bathroom while they
are out of the way, they have to stay out of the corridor while you come
out (the door to the bathroom swings all the way so that it is almost
flush with the wall). Then you have to go to either the left or right
side once outside the corridor to let the other person go in on the
other side because there is a bed directly in from of the corridor with
maybe another two feet (.6 metres) in between. Then they can go into the
corridor and close the door to the bathroom.  
So maybe this is a little bit of an exaggeration but it it is 95%
totally true.  
Once out of the corridor like I said there is a bed. And further beyond
that is another bed. These beds have the drop down bed above them. Same
setup as in the other room. If you go to the right immediately after
getting out of the corridor and go around the bed you have about two
feet (need I tell you the conversion at this point) to get past the two
beds. Once past though it opens up just a bit. There is a small table in
the middle or a space of about five feet by five feet (1.5 by 1.5
metres) on the wall that the heads of the beds are on there is a sofa
that folds out and on the other wall is a small desk. Like the one in
the first room just a little smaller. The wall opposite to the door is
all glass. There is a glass door that you go through and you are on a
private veranda. It is about six, maybe seven feet by about eight feet
(1.8 by 2.4 metres) it has a few chairs and a small table as well as a
nice view. I said that the sofa inside folded out into a bed, well the
only catch to that is that it folds out into the only open space in the
cabin, the room stewards have to move the table to the side by the
window and then pull out the bed. This makes it so that there is
absolutely no space between the edge of the bed and the desk and about
six inches (15 cm) between the edge of the fold out bed and the regular
bed. At night the room is literally all beds but we didn't spend too
much time in it.  
    \~Sumner

**Hannah:**  
This mornng I woke up relativly early and went to breakfast with
everybody. While at breakfast, I met this girl named Hannah Burch. She
is 11 years old and is from St. Louis, Missouri. The funny thing is, is
that her brother (logan) is 14. Though he has the height of a full grown
tall man! After breakfast, I went to Club HAL. We got to go outside to
the sports deck and play with some bouncy balls. The only problem was,
was that there were some adults playing vollyeball up there. We only got
a little space to do stuff. While I was there, the other Hannah came and
asked me if I wanted to come to a rock presentation with her. OK. I have
to do a little bit of explaining. Hannah and Logan came on the ship
because their mom was a dentist. You probably are thinking, "So they
came on because they wanted to, and you had to stick that little bit of
unimportant information." Actually, there was a dentists convention
going on for the last 10 days of our cruise. Anyway, back to the story.
The presentation Hannah and I went to was about the rocks that made up
the islands of Santorini. It was VERY interesting. After the
presentation, Hannah and I went up to the buffet restaurant (hhave I
told you that the name of the buffet place is called the Lido?) Anyway,
we had lunch (and dessert) at the Lido. After that, we just hung out for
a while until we decided to go swimming. It was a very nice day for
swimming too. After we swam for quite some time, both of us decided to
shower off and go try to play some shuffleboard. (Look what that is. It
is REALLY fun to play.) After shuffleboard, we went traipsing off and
around the ship. At 5:40, I had to go back to the room and get ready for
dinner. I am REALLY sad because that is our last casual dinner on the
Noordam. Oh!!! I forgot to mention that Hannah and I went to the BIG
show room to watch this performance of OLD LADIES TAP DANCING AND
WEARING SHORT MINNIE SKIRTS!!! It was REALLY funny. You could probably
look them up online. there were called the moquitos. Tonight at dinner,
was our last formal night instead of our last casual night. I was SO
 sad! Guess what I had for dinner? If you guys know what these things
are, you will be jealous. If you don't know what that is. LOOK IT UP!!!
I ate ...  
CAVIAR AND ESCARGOT!!!  
Do you know what that stuff costs? Caviar can cost up to \$2,400 per
pound on the VERY high end. It was REALLY good though. It kind of tasted
like salty squishy things. And the escargot was absolutly fabulous.
After dinner, I went to Club HAL. I am SO sorry, but I forgot what we
did.  
-Hannah-  :)

<div>

</div>

<div style="font-weight: bold;">

</div>
