Queen Mary 2 Crossing
#####################

:date: 2019-05-31 23:58
:authors: Sumner Evans
:category: Trip to D.C. and Transatlantic Cruise
:tags: Cruise, Queen Mary 2, WWII, Veterans
:slug: 2019-05-24-2019-05-31-queen-mary-2-crossing
:status: published

Instead of giving you a day-by-day on what we did on the crossing (I was told
that it is *not* a cruise), I'm going to just talk about some of the highlights
and make some observations about my time on board the Queen Mary 2. We didn't
stop in any ports, so it was just what we did on board.

WWII Veteran Presentations
==========================

One of the main reasons we went on this cruise was because the *Greatest
Generations Foundation*, a group which helps tell the stories of WWII veterans,
was on board with 21 WWII veterans. The Cunard Cruise Line and the Greatest
Generations foundation had coordinated events every morning where one or two of
the veterans were interviewed by a host and were able to tell their stories
about WWII. The host was a man from local television in Denver, so it was funny
seeing him in person.

The veterans' experiences spanned the entire war. One of the veterans was a
sailor on board one of the ships in Pearl Harbor on the December 7, 1941 while
another veteran was the radio operator in Eisenhower's war room on VE Day.

The one who was there at Pearl Harbor, Stu, was on a ship that was hit by a
torpedo (maybe multiple torpedos, I don't remember exactly) and was rapidly
listing to that side. It was saved from capsizing due to the heroic work of some
sailors on another boat who tore holes on the other side of the boat so that it
sank straight down, rather than sideways. Stu escaped his ship by swimming to
shore through water that was covered in burning oil from ruptured fuel tanks.
He came up for breath once, in the middle of the inferno, and I remember him
clearly saying "that was the hottest breath of air I've ever taken".

The one who was present in Eisenhower's war room was actually the one who sent
the message that Germany had surrendered to the allies.

Many of the veterans on board participated in the D-Day landings. In fact, many
of them are continuing on to the 75th Anniversary of D-Day commemorations that
are taking place in Normandy on June 6th of this year. Two of the veterans
parachuted into Normandy behind enemy lines on the night of June 5th, 1944.
Another two or three were part of the Navy and Marine corps that bombarded
Normandy, and took men onto the shores. I don't remember if any of them landed
on the shores or not. The unifying theme for all of them was that no Hollywood
movie does the horrors of war justice. *Saving Private Ryan* was mentioned many
times as being the closest approximation to the carnage. One of the veterans
said that the real thing was like "take *Saving Private Ryan*, and make it ten
times worse". Another one said that "the main omission was the body parts strewn
across the beach and in the waters".

One of the veterans story was especially moving to me. It was Frank Divita, a
man from New York City. He had a distinct New York accent, and in another life
could have easily played the tough New York organized crime gangster in a movie
(or in real life, for that matter). But his tough guy appearance melted away
quickly when he began talking about his experiences in the war, specifically on
D-Day. He was a Marine on one of the landing craft (LCMs) that took men to the
shores on D-Day. His job was to lower the ramp to let the men out, but also let
the German machine gun bullets in. He had moved to this position after his
crewmate who was originally in that role had been killed. He talked about
hearing the bullets hitting the front of the craft and freezing when he was
supposed to lower the ramp. As soon as he lowered it, the machine gun fire
rained in. The two men next to him were hit immediately. He related his fear
that he would be next. I think that Frank mentioned that one of them actually
survived, despite taking multiple bullets. The other one was fatally wounded. As
Frank talked about him, you could tell that he became very emotional. He talked
about how the man was really no more than a boy, maybe 18 or 19 years old. As
the boy lay on the floor of the LCM, he cried out for his mother. Frank said a
prayer over him, and administered some morphine. "And then,", said Frank,
clearly having a hard time getting the words out, "he died.". Watching this man,
now in his 90s, who looked like your typical New York City tough-guy, nearly
breaking down as he described what had happened to him three-quarters of a
century ago was very impactful. I will never forget his story.



- Table mates were nice: engineers from Sweden (lived in USA for a long time)
  and England

- friends

  - Met chase on day 1
  - met Graham, Griffin, and Blake on day 2

    - workout session day 3?
    - Chess
    - Swimming
    - Trivia

  - Aaron on day 4 or so after First Man

- the nature of routine (it became routine what we did every day very quickly)

  - Trivia

- First Man and Darkest Hour
- Planetarium
