---
title: "London, England and Back Home"
date: 2022-06-19T12:00:00-06:00
categories: [Trip to Portugal and France]
tags:
  - Travel
  - London
  - United Kingdom
  - Paris
  - France
  - Munich
  - Germany
  - Denver
description: "TODO"
draft: true
---

Today, I was in a total of five countries. Why? Well, one of the things on my
bucket list was to go on the Eurostar from Paris to London under the Channel
tunnel. I don't know why it was on my bucket list; I think it was because I have
always liked trains.

Anyway, I woke up at ========TODO and navigated my way to Gare du Nord.

The process to get onto the Eurostar was very streamlined. We went through the
passport checks for the EU and for the UK all before getting onboard the train.

======TODO

Unfortunately, we weren't able to use the high speed tracks through France. That
was part of what I was looking forward to, but it was still a pretty view of the
French countryside out the window.

We entered the Chunnel at Calais ============TODO and after the half hour
transit in the dark, we emerged in Southampton ==========TODO! Obviously there
wasn't much to see in the tunnel, but it was cool to have gone under an ocean in
a train!

Due to not going on the high-speed tracks in France, we arrived over an hour
late into London. Eurostar has a decent refund policy, and I will be able to get
$40 compensation =========TODO for the delay.

Initially, I was planning on leaving Europe via London, but it ended up being
way more expensive than flying both directions out of Lisbon, any my company
said they'd only cover the cost of a round-trip to and from Lisbon.
Unfortunately, I'd already booked my Eurostar, so it made sense for me to just
book a flight from London back to Lisbon and the fly from there.

The flight from Lisbon left the next morning at ==========TODO, so I booked a
late evening flight out of London so that I could at least spend a few hours in
the city between arriving via my Eurostar and departing for Lisbon.

My first stop was the British Museum to see a special exhibit about Stonehenge.

==========TODO

After finishing at the British Museum, I wandered over to Chinatown for some
food. I ate at ========TODO. It was a very authentic dim sum restaurant, and I
enjoyed it greatly. By that time it was about time for me to head for the
airport. I went and picked my bags up at the luggage storage location (the name
was ======TODO and it was super convenient). Then I took the train all the way
out to Heathrow via the Tube.

My flight to Lisbon was uneventful, and I went through Portuguese border
control. At that point it was around midnight in Lisbon, but I stayed up until
my flight with the intent of sleeping on the plane to line up my sleep schedule
with Denver time. So, I got a bite to eat, pulled out my computer to write some
on my blog, and waited for my flight.

My connection was through Munich, Germany (the fourth country for the day
(though, to be honest I wasn't quite sure what day it was when I arrived)). I
had a bit of an adventure going through border control in Munich, because they
noticed that the Portuguese border control had (a few hours before) marked me as
having arrived three days =========TODO in the future! The border agents talked
for quite a while (probably wondering why they'd allowed Portugal into the
Schengen =========TODO area), but they let me through after explaining the issue
and encouraging me to check my stamps I was given.

At this point, I was quite exhausted, but I managed to get on the plane. I think
I was asleep before we pulled back from the gate.
Upon arriving in Denver at ========TODO, I was actually felt decent.

It was quite a whirlwind of a day (or days, I don't know at this point), but I
got back home safe and sound.

I always like travelling, but I always like returning back to the comfort of
home. After the [retreat]({{< ref "../ericeira-portugal" >}}) and a week off,
I'm rejuvenated and ready to get back to work tomorrow!
