---
title: "Paris, France -- Day 1"
date: 2022-06-15T12:00:00-06:00
categories: [Trip to Portugal and France]
tags:
  - Travel
  - Paris
  - France
  - Place de la Concorde
  - Champs-Élysées
  - Arc de Triomphe
  - Eiffel Tower
description: |
  Today I went to the Place de la Concorde, the Arc de Triomphe, and
  the Eiffel Tower.
image: ./images/arc-view.jpg
---

Today was my first day in Paris! I decided to move to a hotel because I didn't
feel totally safe at the hostel I was staying at. I normally don't care too much
about my sleeping accommodations and can sleep anywhere, but just something
about the vibe didn't sit right with me. I was a bit concerned about leaving my
things at the hostel, even locked up. Maybe it was just that my expectations
were skewed by the great hostel in Lisbon... Regardless, I'm not on *that* tight
of a travel budget, so I spent the first part of the morning moving to the new
hotel (the citizenM).

After getting that sorted out, I had another adventure trying to get on the
subway. I had bought a set of tickets for the subway earlier, but for some
reason none of the magnetic strips would work. After trying to use different
turnstyle and ticket combinations, I ended up giving up and cutting my losses.
The tickets are relatively cheap (€1.90), and with the exchange rate being so
good, it was worth it to just eat the cost.

## Place de la Concorde

My first destination was the Place de la Concorde. I got my first daytime
glimpse of the Eiffel Tower!

{{< figure
      src="./images/concorde.jpg"
      link="./images/concorde.jpg"
      target="_blank"
      title="My first glimpse of the Eiffel Tower"
      caption="Everything that I saw was so historic and beautiful."
>}}

I decided to walk around one of the fountains in the Jardin des Tuileries. It's
a beautiful garden and there's statues lining the main walkway. The two closest
statues that I looked at were both erected in the plaza before the founding of
the United States! It hit me that the founding fathers such as Benjamin Franklin
probably also walked past the same statues during their time as diplomats and
ministers to France.

The obelisk in the centre of the square is from ancient Egypt. I think it's so
amusing that such an ancient treasure is displayed as the centerpiece of a
Parisian square.

I proceeded to walk down the Avenue des Champs-Élysées towards the Arc de
Triomphe. On my way, I got a sandwich from one of the bakeries. I have no idea
if it was an "authentic French sandwich", but it was good nonetheless.

## Arc de Triomphe

I eventually made it to the Arc de Triomphe. I took a few minutes taking in the
historic significance of the arch. Many an army had walked through or past the
structure through the centuries. I bought a ticket to go up to the top of the
Arc, but before I went up, I spent some time admiring the size and looking at
the reliefs depicting many French victories, primarily Austerlitz from what I
could gather.

It is quite an imposing structure. In many ways, it epitomises the pride of the
French people. Despite their reputation in the Anglophone world as being the
side that is "always surrendering", France has been a cornerstone of Western
culture and identity for centuries. As the first ally to the United States,
France has continued to be an ally even through its various iterations of
republics, empires, and monarchies.

After scaling many more stairs that I expected to have to, I reached the top.
The views all around are magnificent, and it was amazing seeing the city
sprawling beautifully away in all directions. It has a great view across the
River Seine to the Tour Eiffel.

{{< figure
      src="./images/arc-view.jpg"
      link="./images/arc-view.jpg"
      target="_blank"
      title="A view of the Eiffel Tower from the top of the Arc de Triomphe"
      caption="Due to heavy-handed city planning, the city is quite uniform making it so visually appealing."
>}}

## Eiffel Tower

My next destination was the Eiffel Tower, but rather than ride the subway to it,
I decided to just walk from the Arc de Triomphe to the tower. I took a route via
some side streets outside the main tourist-y area. The area that I walked
through had lots of streets named after scientists and explorers. There was Rue
Galilée, Rue Kepler, Rue Newton, and Rue Euler. The streets were very nice, and
seemed more residential. There were lots of people who looked like locals
walking around. I even saw a boy walking to or from his fencing practice.

Then I came to the Place des Etats-Unis which is a road that goes around the
Thomas Jefferson Square. The square holds a monument to the Americans who
volunteered to fight in the French armed forces during WWI and died in service.
Oddly, there is a plaque on the back which was added much later that
commemorates something about American volunteers during WWII who joined the
resistance in Vichy France. I did a bunch of searching online and found nothing
about why the additional plaque was added.

{{< figure
      src="./images/memorial-volunteers.jpg"
      link="./images/memorial-volunteers.jpg"
      target="_blank"
      title="Monument aux Volontaires américains"
>}}

In general, I was surprised by the amount of monuments and statues which
commemorated Americans. Given that France is our oldest ally, I guess it makes
sense, but it was still unexpected.

Eventually I arrived at another square with a statue of somebody on a horse. I
have no idea who it was of, but he was looking straight at the Eiffel Tower, so
he has a pretty nice view.

I took my time walking down to the Eiffel Tower, enjoying the fountains that
lead down to it.

{{< figure
      src="./images/eiffel-tower-1.jpg"
      link="./images/eiffel-tower-1.jpg"
      target="_blank"
      title="The Eiffel Tower!"
      caption="I've seen it in so many pictures, it was cool to see it in person!"
>}}

I wandered around the grounds of the tower, it's base is larger than I expected.
I guess I should have expected such a large structure to have a fairly wide
base, but hey, I studied computer science, not civil engineering at school ;)

I bought a ticket to take the stairs up the tower to the first and second level
viewing platforms. I accidentally got in the line for the elevator, but quickly
realized my mistake. There are 674 steps to get to the second floor, and if you
decide to visit and are willing and able to do that many stairs, it's worth it.
I hate standing in line unnecessarily, so avoiding the line for the elevator was
ideal.

I then had to take the elevator to the top. The views were absolutely
spectacular. The sky were clear and there was a beautiful view in all
directions.

{{< figure
      src="./images/eiffel-tower-2.jpg"
      link="./images/eiffel-tower-2.jpg"
      target="_blank"
      title="The view from the Eiffel Tower"
      caption="I now understand why people fall in love with Paris. The city is so beautiful!"
>}}

At this point, it was fairly late in the evening, and I headed back to the
hotel. I asked for a recommendation for a French restaurant, and went to [Bistro
Lyonnais](https://goo.gl/maps/xfZUEEhPQpsbb7dC8) which was a very short walk
from my hotel. I got French Onion soup, and steak and frites. It was a fantastic
meal, and the service was excellent as well. I think I like European-style
service better than American-style: they leave you alone to enjoy the food. They
also seem to pay more attention to detail. The plates had the name of the
restaurant on one side, and I noticed the server placed the plate down so that
the name was the right way up.

{{< figure
      src="./images/steak.jpg"
      link="./images/steak.jpg"
      target="_blank"
      title="My steak and frites meal"
>}}

The meal was a reasonable price as well. The exchange rate from USD to EUR is so
favourable right now, which makes all of the prices a lot more palatable. It's
hovering around 1:1 right now, so it really is the time to travel to Europe.

Anyway, tomorrow is an early day: I'm heading on a day trip to the Normandy
beaches, so I'm off to bed!
